Leonard: It’s gonna get crazy.
Sheldon: Dungeons & Dragons.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: I’ve got a brand-new seven piece set of polyhedral dice. Hello, new dice smell.

Howard: Ready whenever you guys are.
Sheldon: Yeah, yeah, we’ll be right there. Leonard?

Leonard: Yeah?
Sheldon: I’m not sure how I feel about Howard being dungeon master instead of you.

Leonard: Oh, that’s nice. But relax, sometimes change is good. Uh, you were worried about Zachary Quinto being the new Spock, but you wound up liking him.
Sheldon: Oh, please. Every time the topic of change comes up, you throw Zachary Quinto in my face. I’m upset the mailman has a new haircut, Zachary Quinto. I’m upset that daylight saving time started, Zachary Quinto. I’m upset daylight saving time ended, Zachary Quinto. I’m saying this for the last time, Zachary Quinto was a weird, wonderful, unrepeatable event. So stop using him against me.

Leonard: See, Howard’s just as good a dungeon master as I am.
Sheldon: As good? You just got pantsed in the schoolyard, four-eyes.

Howard: We’ll be fine, watch. Suddenly, a spectral shape rises from Koothrappali’s bloody corpse, and says, (Raj voice) don’t worry, buddies, ghost Raj will help guide you through the forest. (Nicolas Cage voice) Well, I’m just a tree, but if I were you, I’d listen to your ghost friend.
Sheldon: Go on, give him your lunch money.

Howard: Uh, it does. (Creaking sound)
Sheldon: He does sound effects, too!

Leonard: Hey, I always did sound effects. A-A swarm of bloodthirsty bats fly through the dungeon. (Clicking sounds) Uh, uh, they attack a nearby unicorn. (Strange howl)
Sheldon: Okay, well, I have a sound effect for those sound effects. (Blows raspberry)

Amy: You guys enjoy your evening. I’m gonna go before I ruin anybody else’s weekend.
Sheldon: Ah, that’s my girl.

Leonard: No, no, no, Amy, wait. I know it’s not the night you had in mind, but why don’t you guys stay and play with us? It’ll be fun.
Sheldon: It would? Fun? Okay, three weeks ago you bought crunchy peanut butter, now you want the girls to play D&D? Do you have a drug problem?

Leonard: What’s the big deal? Raj bailed, so we could use some extra players.
Sheldon: Well, I’ve just never played Dungeons & Dragons with girls before.

Leonard: So, what do you say?
Sheldon: I’ll leave it up to the dungeon master.

Penny: Okay, who wants a drink?
Sheldon: Yeah, we, now, Penny, we don’t consume alcohol during Dungeons & Dragons. It impairs our judgment.

Howard: Okay, here we go. You find yourselves face-to-face with two hulking ogres. What are you doing in our dungeon? You shall die!
Sheldon: Okay, literal goose bumps. Look.

Leonard: I draw my broadsword.
Sheldon: I ready my quarter-staff.

Penny: Fifteen’s the point, the point is fifteen. Give the little lady some room, here it is, coming out. Sixteen! Yes! Oh, please tell me we’re playing for money.
Sheldon: Oh, even better than money. You gained experience points.

Howard: Seventeen, the larger ogre is dead. The-the other ogre says, you killed my brother, now Ogre Thanksgiving is ruined.
Sheldon: That is amazing. He made me care about the ogre.

Howard: The dragon falls from the sky, crashing into the volcano.
Sheldon: Yay!

Howard: But wait., he’s not dead. He crawls out, spreads his wings and prepares to attack.
Sheldon: Yeah, uh, wait. Doesn’t he say something first? You know, maybe in the voice of a beloved celebrity?

Howard: Fine. (Christopher Walken voice) You’d think, after all these years, I’d know not to fly over volcanoes. I’m a freaking idiot.
Sheldon: The dragon’s Christopher Walken. That’s perfect.

Howard: It’s a hit. The dragon collapses to the ground.
Sheldon: Wait. Wait. And says?

Howard: Mother? Is that you? Your little boy is coming home.
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t know about you guys, but I have been through the emotional wringer tonight.

Howard: Oh, yeah? Well, when we get home, I’m gonna take you on a whole different adventure.
Sheldon: Another quest by Wolowitz? Count me in.

Amy: Sheldon, they’re talking about sex.
Sheldon: Oh, then I’m out.

Amy: I don’t like this.
Sheldon: You see what happens when you let girls play D&D?

Amy: What?
Sheldon: I’ve never knocked on my own door before. That was a wild ride.

Amy: You don’t have to come in here and cheer me up.
Sheldon: Thank you. Would you go tell everyone else that? Because they sure think otherwise.

Amy: I’ll tell you what they think. They think our relationship is a joke.
Sheldon: Well, I don’t think our relationship is a joke. I think “a horse goes into a bar, bartender says, why the long face?’, that’s a joke. It’s a good one, too, because a horse has a long face.

Amy: Sheldon, are we ever going to have an intimate relationship?
Sheldon: Oh, my. That’s an uncomfortable topic. Amy, before I met you, I never had any interest in being intimate with anyone.

Amy: And now?
Sheldon: And now what?

Amy: Do you have any interest now?
Sheldon: I have not ruled it out.

Amy: Wow. Talk dirty to me.
Sheldon: I know it doesn’t seem like it to you, but, for me, what we have is extremely intimate.

Amy: I guess I know that. It’s just, part of me wants more.
Sheldon: More? I mean, look at us. It’s only been three years, here we are in bed together.

Amy: Come on. Let’s go back out there.
Sheldon: Well, no. Hold on. My Elven magic-user and your half-orc warrior did have a love spell cast on them. We wouldn’t really be playing the game right if we didn’t see that through.

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: I believe that, uh, we just killed a dragon. While the others pillage the corpse, I lead you to a secluded area where I attempt to remove your leather armour. (Rolls dice) It comes off.

Amy: Oh.
Sheldon: What do you do?

Amy: I kiss you on the lips.
Sheldon: I kiss you back on the (Rolls dice) lips as well. Your turn.

Amy: I remove your armour. What do you do?
Sheldon: I erotically caress your (Rolls dice) nose.

Raj: I’d love that, but she’s not really comfortable around people.
Sheldon: Yeah, I used to be uncomfortable around people, but then I learned a trick. I pretend everyone I meet is a beloved character from Star Trek.

Leonard: How’s that been working for you?
Sheldon: Oh, like a charm, unnamed crewman in a red shirt.

Leonard: I have a job.
Sheldon: Yes, he does. He caters to my every whim.

Leonard: He knows, wow.
Sheldon: Well, now, but do you think that’s a good idea? Uh, you know Star Trek. Should a guy with no name and a red shirt really go on an expedition?

Raj: Hey, don’t discourage him. This is a fantastic opportunity.
Sheldon: No one asked you, Uhura.

Scene: Leonard’s car.
Sheldon: Would you like to hear a classic Sheldon Cooper factoid?

Leonard: What do you think?
Sheldon: Great. I’ve been doing some reading about vehicular safety. Did you know that the highest number of drowning accidents happen on or around boats?

Leonard: Interesting that you would bring that up when I might go work on a boat.
Sheldon: Well, that’s the thing about factoids, they’re interesting.

Leonard: I know what you’re doing. You don’t want me going on this research trip because you’re afraid to be alone.
Sheldon: I’m not afraid to be alone. On land. On the sea, it would be terrifying. Because of all the drowning.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Fine, no more drowning talk. I’ll change the subject. Oh. Who do you think would win in a fight, you or a shark?

Leonard: Look, I appreciate your signature blend of concern for me and incredible selfishness. If I get the chance to do this, there is nothing you can say that’s going to stop me.
Sheldon: Very well. Things between you and Penny have never been better. I hope four months apart doesn’t change anything. I should have opened with that, huh?

Leonard: There’s beer in the fridge. Anyway, you guys really don’t need to make a big deal.
Sheldon: Leonard, you’re being selfish. We need to give you a proper send-off so we’ll have closure when you die at sea and crabs eat your face.

Raj: The only person allowed inside this head is Dr. Phil. Anyway, I, I spoke to my new lady friend about meeting you all, and she thought it would be easier for her to start with just one.
Sheldon: Oh, gee, I don’t know. My schedule’s a little busy.

Amy: A, that was not a joke, that was a sincere request. And B, more importantly, I was the outsider to this group, and I know how frightening that can be. But you guys took me in and made me feel loved, like I was family.
Sheldon: Fine, I’ll do it.

Scene: A store.
Sheldon: This is ridiculous, we’re shopping for a party and this store doesn’t even have a party section.

Penny: Yeah, it does, and here we are.
Sheldon: You know, I have to say, Penny, I don’t understand why you of all people are encouraging Leonard to do this.

Penny: Well, I’m his girlfriend, of course I’m gonna support him.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, you’re his girlfriend for now. You know, maybe you’re not aware of this, but there is a rich tradition of men at sea finding comfort in each other’s arms and britches.

Penny: Honey, this is a big deal for Leonard, okay? He gets to work with Stephen Hawking. Who, by the way, will not be on the boat. I checked it out.
Sheldon: It’s not that big of an opportunity. And even if Hawking’s theories are correct, all they prove is where the universe came from, why everything exists and what its ultimate end will be. I mean, me? I’m interested in the big questions.

Penny: Oh, my God, Sheldon the genius is jealous of Leonard.
Sheldon: I’m not jealous. I’m just very unhappy that good things are happening for him and not happening for me.

Penny: Look, sweetie, this is a natural thing to feel, okay? But just because good things are happening to Leonard doesn’t take anything away from you. You know what? Let me tell you a little story. Once there was a girl who worked at the Cheesecake Factory, and she wasn’t very good at her job.
Sheldon: It was you.

Penny: It wasn’t me. But she was also an actress, and we were both up for the same part in a toothpaste commercial. She got it. Look, I was so jealous. But instead of ripping out her fake blonde hair…
Sheldon: You ripped out your own fake blonde hair.

Penny: I, looked her in the eye, smiled and said, I’m happy for you. Because that’s what friends do.
Sheldon: They lie so they don’t look petty.

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: How?

Penny: Like this. I am so happy for you.
Sheldon: Wow. No wonder you didn’t get that toothpaste commercial.

Raj: She is. She’s just running a little late. You know how it is, girls always fussing about their hair, their makeup. She’ll be here. Just give it a rest, okay?
Sheldon: Um, can I have your attention, everyone? (Clinks glass) That’s, uh, B-flat, for those who don’t have perfect pitch. I would like to propose a toast to my best friend, Dr. Leonard Hofstadter. He has been presented with a wonderful opportunity, and I couldn’t be happier for him.

Leonard: Thank you, Sheldon. That must’ve been very hard for you to say.
Sheldon: Well, I mean it. I’m really happy for you. And that’s how you get a toothpaste commercial. Cheers.

Howard: It was really nice of you to try to be happy for Leonard.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: Me, too.
Sheldon: It did not kill me when you went to space. Monkeys went to space.

Penny: I’m gonna miss you, too.
Sheldon: Penny, we’re in the red zone. The white zone is for loading and unloading. We’re breaking the law.

Leonard: Anyway, we can e-mail, and I think the phone connections are pretty good.
Sheldon: All right, you have to get out of the car right now. I’m not going to jail for you.

Leonard: Would you just relax?
Sheldon: Oh, I see a space in the white zone. Quick, circle the airport.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord, a police officer’s glancing in our direction. We’ve been made.

Penny: Oh, Leonard.
Sheldon: It’s just a heart-shaped locket with a picture of Leonard’s face in it. He got it at the mall on clearance. Now move, move, move.

Leonard: I love you, too.
Sheldon: Don’t worry, Officer. They just love each other. We’re not smuggling drugs.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Oh look, Saturn 3 is on.

Raj: I don’t want to watch Saturn 3. Deep Space Nine is better.
Sheldon: How is Deep Space Nine better than Saturn 3?

Leonard: Compromise. Watch Babylon 5.
Sheldon: In what sense is that a compromise?

Raj: I’ll tell you what, how about we go rock-paper-scissors?
Sheldon: Ooh, I don’t think so. No, anecdotal evidence suggests that in the game of rock-paper-scissors, players familiar with each other will tie 75 to 80% of the time due to the limited number of outcomes. I suggest rock-paper-scissors- lizard-Spock.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: It’s very simple. Look, scissors cuts paper. Paper covers rock. Rock crushes lizard. Lizard poisons Spock. Spock smashes scissors. Scissors decapitates lizard. Lizard eats paper. Paper disproves Spock. Spock vaporizes rock. And as it always has, rock crushes scissors.

Howard: Noticed the eye patch, did you? It’s all part of a technique I’ve been studying for picking up women. You employ a visual display designed to make yourself distinctive and memorable.
Sheldon: Oh yes, like the male peacock with brilliant plumage or the rutting baboon with engorged hindquarters.

Scene: The same.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, but I’m not going to watch the Clone Wars TV series until I’ve seen the Clone Wars movie. I prefer to let George Lucas disappoint me in the order he intended.

Leonard: Well, I want to watch it now.
Sheldon: Then I believe we’ve arrived at another quintessential rock-paper-scissors- lizard-Spock moment.

Raj: I saw what you did there.
Sheldon: What did I do?

Leonard (answering phone): Hello. Hey, Howard. What’s wrong? Okay. Okay, we’ll be right there.
Sheldon: What happened?

Leonard: Howard’s at the Mars Rover lab. He says he’s in trouble. Defcon 5.
Sheldon: Defcon 5? Well, there’s no need to rush.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Defcon 5 means no danger. Defcon 1 is a crisis.

Raj: Yeah, Star Trek V, worse than I.
Sheldon: Okay, first of all, that’s a comparison of quality, not intensity. Secondly, Star Trek I is orders-of-magnitude worse than Star Trek V.

Raj: Are you joking? Star Trek V is the standard against which all badness is measured.
Sheldon: No, no, no. Star Trek V has specific failures in writing and direction, while Star Trek I fails across the board, art direction, costuming, music, sound editing.

 
Sheldon: All right, will you at least stipulate that Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home is inarguably the best?

Howard: I got the Mars Rover stuck in a ditch.
Sheldon: Where?

Howard: Yeah, baby, I’ll be right in.
Sheldon: You brought a girl to the Mars Rover control room?

Howard: No, there were three other guys with eye patches, iIt was a fiasco. What did work was, “How’d you like to visit a secret government facility?”
Sheldon: So what exactly do you want us to do?

Howard: I need you and Raj to help me get the Rover out of the ditch, and I need you to get Stephanie out before somebody notices she’s here. She doesn’t exactly have clearance.
Sheldon: Really? They don’t let strange women from honky-tonks come in and play with $200million government projects on distant planets?

Howard: My mother is so gonna love her.
Sheldon: Oh, how nice. Maybe they can carpool when they visit you in federal prison.

Raj: Actually, I was just checking my e-mail. But, uh, no, the Rover is not responding.
Sheldon: I believe the appropriate metaphor here involves a river of excrement and a Native American water vessel without any means of propulsion.

Raj: You could try calling Triple-A, but based on NASA’s latest timetable, they won’t get there for 35 years.
Sheldon: Plus I understand you have to be standing next to the vehicle with your card when they arrive.

Raj: Oh, snap.
Sheldon: Snap what?

Howard: Erase all the hard drives, scrap the surveillance tapes, wipe our fingerprints off every surface and run.
Sheldon: Why wasn’t that Plan A?

Leonard: Psst! Psst!
Sheldon: Will you all excuse me? Leonard is subtly signalling that he’d like to talk to me in private.

Howard: Well, that does sound like me, but no.
Sheldon: Is there some problem?

Leonard: Yeah. Listen, I have to kinda sneak out for a while.
Sheldon: All right, goodbye.

Leonard: No, wait! If anyone asks you where I went, you don’t know.
Sheldon: Where are you going?

Leonard: I can’t tell you that.
Sheldon: Who would ask me?

Leonard: I can’t tell you that, either.
Sheldon: So you brought me in here to inform me that you can’t tell me where you’re going and you can’t tell me who might ask?

Leonard: Yeah, I really didn’t think this through.
Sheldon: Leonard, a moment.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: If someone, and of course, we don’t know who this would be, does ask where you’ve gone, what should I say?

Leonard: I don’t know. Just tell them I went to the office.
Sheldon: Are you going to the office?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Then how can I say it convincingly?

Leonard: Just say, Leonard went to the office.
Sheldon: All right. Leonard went to (exaggerated) the office.

Leonard: What is? No, not like that! Just, Leonard went to the office.
Sheldon: This would have worked out a lot better if you’d just told me you were going the office.

Leonard: I’m going to the office.
Sheldon: See? Why don’t I believe you?

Howard: Okay.
Sheldon: Doesn’t anyone want to know where he’s going?

Penny: Okay, where is he going?
Sheldon: Leonard is going to (exaggerated) the office.

All: Rock-paper-scissors- lizard-Spock.
Sheldon: Okay, one of us is going to have to stop putting up Spock.

Leonard: Oh, hey, guys.
Sheldon: Hello.

Howard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Howard is employing a schoolyard paradigm in which you are, for all intents and purposes, deceased. He intends to act on this by not speaking to you, feigning an inability to hear you when you speak and otherwise refusing to acknowledge your existence.

Leonard: That’s just ridiculous. Why are you cooperating with him?
Sheldon: I don’t make the rules, Leonard.

Howard: Did someone just feel a cold breeze?
Sheldon: I believe this is an extension of the death metaphor. The cold breeze is the so-called ectoplasmic issue of a disembodied soul passing by.

Howard: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Look I’m sorry, you violated the terms of your metaphor by acknowledging her existence. I’m out.



Leonard: See, the liquid metal Terminators were created in the future by Skynet, and Skynet was developed by Miles Dyson, but that future no longer exists, due to Dyson’s death in Terminator 2.
Sheldon: Okay, then riddle me this. Assuming all the good Terminators were originally evil Terminators created by Skynet but then reprogrammed by the future John Connor, why would Skynet, an artificial computer intelligence, bother to create a petite hot 17 year-old killer robot?

Leonard: Skynet is kinky? I don’t know. 
Sheldon: Artificial intelligences do not have teen fetishes. 

Leonard: Alright, oh wait, they use it to in…
Sheldon: (Buzzing noise), too late, I win. 

Leonard: What the hell is that? 
Sheldon: I don’t know, but if cats could sing, they’d hate it too. (The continue up the stairs and disappear from view).

Leonard: Oh, I give up.
Sheldon: I don’t guess. As a scientist I reach conclusions based on observation and experimentation, although as I’m saying this it occurs to me you may have been employing a rhetorical device rendering my response moot. 

Penny: Alright, remember when I auditioned for that workshop production of Rent, but I didn’t get it and I couldn’t figure out why?
Sheldon: I have a conclusion based on an observation.

Penny: It’s not a big deal, just a one night showcase, but they invite a lot of casting people and agents so, you never know. 
Sheldon: I think I know.

Leonard: Because…. uh, Friday, we are attending a symposium on molecular positronium.
Sheldon: I think that’s a week from Tuesday at six. 

Leonard: See you. (Penny exits singing) 
Sheldon: You just lied to Penny.

Leonard: Yes, I did. 
Sheldon: And you did it so casually, no rapid breathing, no increase in perspiration.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: So, lack of a physiological response while lying is characteristic of a violent sociopath. 

Leonard: Sheldon, are you worried about your safety.
Sheldon: No, I imagine if you were going to kill me you’d have done it a long time ago. 

Scene: Outside Leonard’s bedroom. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard…

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I need to speak to you.

Leonard: It’s two o’clock in the morning
Sheldon: It’s important.

Leonard: I highly doubt that. Go away. (Long pause). Are you still out there? 
Sheldon: Yes. 

Leonard (opening door): What? 
Sheldon: You’re right, it can wait until morning. 

Leonard (following Sheldon into living room): What, what, what, what, what? 
Sheldon: Never mind. I clearly woke you up in the middle of a REM cycle, you’re in no state to talk.

Leonard: Sheldon, what is it? 
Sheldon: I’m uncomfortable having been included in your lie to Penny. 

Leonard: What was I supposed to say. 
Sheldon: You could have told her the truth.

Leonard: That would have hurt her feelings. 
Sheldon: Is that a relevant factor? 

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Then I suppose you could have agreed to go. 

Leonard: And what would I have said afterwards? 
Sheldon: I would suggest something to the effect of, singing is neither an appropriate vocation nor avocation for you, and if you disagree, I’d recommend you have a CAT scan, to look for a tumour pressing on the cognitive processing centre of your brain.

Leonard: I couldn’t say that, I would have to say, you were terrific and I can’t wait to hear you sing again. 
Sheldon: Why? 

Leonard: It’s the social protocol, it’s what you do when you have a friend who’s proud of something they really suck at. 
Sheldon: I was not aware of that. 

Leonard: Well now you are.
Sheldon: Oh, alright. Leonard.

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: When we played chess earlier, you were terrific and I can’t wait to play you again. Goodnight. 

Scene: Leonard’s bedroom. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (Knock, knock, knock, knock)….. 

Leonard: Oooaw. This would be so much easier if I were a violent sociopath. (Opening door) What?
Sheldon: I was analysing our lie, and I believe we’re in danger of Penny seeing through the ruse.

Leonard: How?
Sheldon: Simple. If she were to log on to www.socalphysicsgroup.org/activities/other, click on upcoming events, scroll down to seminars, download the pdf schedule, and look for the seminar on molecular positronium, well then, bippidy-boppidy-boo, our pants are metaphorically on fire. 

Leonard closes door. 
Sheldon: Well, sir, my trousers will not be igniting today. 

Scene: Outside Penny’s door. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Penny, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Penny, (Knock, knock, knock, knock) Penny, (door opens) Good morning.

Penny: Do you have any idea what time it is? 
Sheldon: Of course I do. My watch is linked to the atomic clock in Boulder, Colorado. It’s accurate to one tenth of a second. But as I’m saying this it occurs to me that once again your question may have been rhetorical.

Penny: What do you want?
Sheldon: Remember how Leonard told you we couldn’t come to your performance because we were attending a symposium on molecular positronium?

Penny: I remember symposium.
Sheldon: Yes, well, he lied.

Penny: Wait, what?
Sheldon: He lied, and I’m feeling very uncomfortable about it.

Penny: Well imagine how I’m feeling. 
Sheldon: Hungry? Tired? I’m sorry this really isn’t my strong suit. 

Leonard: You told her I lied, why would you tell her I lied?
Sheldon: To help you. 

Leonard: I’m sorry, I’m not seeing the help.
Sheldon: She was going to see through your lie eventually, so I told her that you were lying to protect me. 

Leonard: Oh, I’m getting a bad feeling. 
Sheldon: Hunger? Indigestion, I’m sorry I’m really not very good at this. Anyway, Penny now believes that on Friday night, we’re going to participate in my cousin Leopold’s drug intervention. 

Leonard: Your cousin Leopold?
Sheldon: Yea, who most people call Leo, but he also answers to Lee, remember that, it’s important. 

Leonard: What’s important?
Sheldon: Details, Leonard, the success or failure of our deceitful enterprise turns on details. 

Leonard: Do you have a cousin Leopold.
Sheldon: No, I made him up. I think you’d call him Lee. 

Leonard: I don’t get it, I already told her a lie, why replace it with a different lie?
Sheldon: Well, first of all, your lie was laughably transparent, where mine is exquisitely convoluted. While you were sleeping I was weaving an un-unravelable web. 

Leonard: Un-unravelable?
Sheldon: Yes, if she googles Leopold Houston she’ll find a facebook page, an online blog depicting his descent into drug use, and a desperate yet hopeful listing on e-harmony.com.

Leonard: Okay, why would I go to a drug intervention for your cousing.
Sheldon: Ah, because it’s in Long Beach, and I don’t drive. 

Leonard: We’re going to Long Beach?
Sheldon: No, of course not, there’s no cousin Leo, there’s no intervention, focus Leonard.

Leonard: Oh, come on!
Sheldon: We just leave the house on Friday night, and we return in the wee hours emotionally wrung out from the work of convincing Leo to go back into rehab.

Leonard: So he goes back into rehab?
Sheldon: Yes, but, he can relapse if Penny ever invites us to go hear her sing again.

Leonard: You still told her I lied.
Sheldon: For a noble purpose, to spare me the social embarrassment of having a drug-addled first cousin, which I’m assuming is embarrassing, yes?

Leonard: I don’t know. How am I supposed to remember all of this.
Sheldon: That’s the best part, you don’t have to, see I told Penny that you would be embarrassed, if you knew that she found out that you had lied, so she’s agreed to operate as if the original lie was still in force. 

Leonard: So she’s expecting me to lie about going to a symposium in Pasadena, when in actuality we’re pretending to go to a drug intervention in Long Beach? 
Sheldon: Un-unravelable. 

Howard: Okay. So what’s up? 
Sheldon: Well, uh, Penny is on her way to perform in a one night showcase production of Rent, which we are unable to attend because we are going to a symposium on molecular positronium, given by Dr Emile Farminfarmian.

Penny: Howard, wait. Sheldon, I think we should tell them.
Sheldon: Okay, sure. I don’t see a problem with that. 

Penny: It’s okay, I do, look, Leonard is helping Sheldon through a family crisis, he made up the whole story about the symposium with Dr Farmin..farm…ian
Sheldon: Good for you. 

Howard: Yeah, uh, break a leg.
Sheldon: Break a leg. (She leaves)

Raj: Oh, too bad. I’ve always wanted to go to Long Beach. 
Sheldon: It’s a very nice community. The Queen Mary is docked there, once the largest ocean liner in the world, it’s now a hotel and restaurant where they host a surprisingly gripping murder mystery dinner. 

Raj: Shotgun.
Sheldon: No, no, no, Leonard gets nauseous unless he sits in front, and even then it’s iffy.

Leonard: Let it go, Sheldon, the murderer was the first mate whether it makes sense to you or not. 
Sheldon: No, that’s the least of our worries. I’ve been doing some research on addiction, both the biochemical and behavioural aspects, and I think there’s a problem with the current version of our lie. 

Leonard: What are you talking about, it’s fine, she bought it, it’s over. 
Sheldon: Sadly, it’s not. Substance abuse is a lifelong struggle, but beyond that I have realised that the Leo I described would not have agreed to go to rehab.

Leonard: Why not? 
Sheldon: Because Leo is a middle child. 

Leonard: There is no Leo, how can you say that? 
Sheldon: You didn’t read the bio, did you? He’s not just a middle child, he’s the quintessential middle child, from a broken home to boot. Psychologically speaking, the attention he gets by rebelling even to the point of self-destruction is more emotionally valuable than the help he would get at rehab.

Leonard: I’ve got a solution.
Sheldon: Great, what is it?

Leonard: Get out.
Sheldon: Fine. (He leaves. A moment later he comes back.) I’ve hesitated to point this out, but I must now remind you that we are in our current predicament because of your initial and totally inadequate deceit. I’m just trying to clean up after your mess. (Leonard throws a glass ornament at him. He just manages to shut the door in time.) We’ll talk in the morning.

Man: Au contraire. I’m 26 years old, I’m originally from (reads off crib notes) Denton, Texas, but I was a Navy brat so I was brought up on a variety of military bases around the world, as a result I’ve often felt like an outsider, never really fitting in, which is probably the reason for my substance abuse problem.
Sheldon: Excuse me, we just went over this. As the quintessential middle child, your addiction is rooted in your unmet need for attention.

Man: Oh, Sheldon, are we really going to go with pop psychology.
Sheldon: For your information, this is all based on solid research, stick with the character profile I wrote for you. 

Leonard: Sheldon?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Leonard, this is Toby Loobenfeld, he’s a research assistant in the particle physics lab, but he also minored in theatre at MIT.

Leonard: Yeah, I got it, Sheldon, why?
Sheldon: Well, you see, while Leo would not have gone into rehab, it is completely plausible that we would have talked him into leaving the motel, and coming home with us.

Toby: Sheldon, how about this as my motivation. When I was fourteen years old I was abused in the Philippines by a club footed Navy chaplain.
Sheldon: No. We’re going with middle child, and a generic predisposition to inadequate serotonin production.

Toby: Swell, how do I play genetic predisposition?
Sheldon: Subtextually, of course. (There is a knock on the door.) Just have fun with it. (Opening door.) Morning Penny.

Penny: Hi. How did the intervention go.
Sheldon: Unfortunately, we weren’t able to convince him to go to rehab. 

Penny: Well, based on what you told me, I’m not surprised. 
Sheldon: But we did convince him to leave the motel. Come say hello. Leo, this is Penny, our friend and neighbour.

Toby: The Philippines. 1992. The Subic Bay Naval Station. A young boy on the cusp of manhood. His only companions mongrel dogs and malarial mosquitos. Desperate and alone he reached out to a man who promised to introduce him to a merciful, loving God, but who instead introduced him to a gin pickled tongue shoved down his adolescent throat. What choice did he have but to drink, shoot and snort his pain away.
Sheldon: Don’t forget his genetic predisposition towards addiction.

Toby: That’s never been proven.
Sheldon: There have been studies.

Toby: Not double blind studies.
Sheldon: How could there be a double blind study, who would be the control group. 

Toby: And that he loved the companionship and the wisdom that his own father failed to provide. 
Sheldon: Your parents made the right decision. 

Leonard: How long is he going to stay here.
Sheldon: He’s a homeless drug addict, Leonard, where is he going to go? Boy, you have a lot to learn about lying.

Scene: The living room of the apartment. Leonard and Sheldon are playing the three dimensional chess game from the original Star Trek series. It is Leonard’s move. He takes his time, moving round the board and checking things from various angles. Finally he tentatively makes a move. Sheldon moves almost immediately.
Sheldon: Checkmate.

Leonard: O-o-o-o-h! Again?
Sheldon: Obviously you’re not well suited for three-dimensional chess, perhaps three dimensional candyland would be more your speed. 

Leonard: Just reset the board.
Sheldon: It must be humbling to suck on so many different levels. 

Penny: Oh, better than North Dakota! (Pause) I guess that joke’s only funny in Nebraska.
Sheldon: From the data at hand you really can’t draw that conclusion. All you can say with absolute certainty is that that joke is not funny here. 

Penny: Ugh, it was the worst trip, everyone got sick over the weekend.
Sheldon: Sick? 

Penny: Oh, the flu I guess.
Sheldon: I don’t need you to guess, I need you to know, now when did the symptoms first appear?

Penny: Maybe Friday.
Sheldon: Friday, was that morning or afternoon? 

Penny: I… I don’t…
Sheldon: Think woman, who blew their nose and when? 

Leonard: Sheldon, relax, she doesn’t have any symptoms, I’m sure she’s not contagious.
Sheldon: Oh please, if influenza was only contagious after symptoms appear it would have died out thousands of years ago. Somewhere between tool using and cave painting, homo habilus would have figured out to kill the guy with the runny nose. 

Penny: Oh, it’s okay, I understand.
Sheldon: Thanks for your consideration, now please leave.

Leonard: No problem. Welcome home. (Sees Penny out. Turns to find Sheldon spraying the air with Lysol.)
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: What the hell are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m making petrie dishes to grow throat cultures. 

Leonard: With lime jello?
Sheldon: I need a growth medium, and someone polished off the apricot yoghurt. Here, swab my throat.

Leonard: I don’t think so.
Sheldon: Leonard! If I’m going to get ahead of this thing I need to find out what’s growing in my throat. 

Leonard: Sheldon, you are not sick. This is, but you are not. 
Sheldon: We have no idea what pathogen Typhoid Penny has introduced into our environment. And having never been to Nebraska I’m fairly certain that I have no cornhusking antibodies. 

Leonard: Sheldon, don’t you think you’re overreacting? 
Sheldon: When I’m lying comatose in a hospital relying on inferior minds to cure me, these jello cultures and my accompanying notes will give them a fighting chance. 

Leonard: I’m going back to bed. 
Sheldon: Wait. (Handing him a measuring jug) Put this in the bathroom.

Leonard: What for? 
Sheldon: I need to measure my fluid intake and output to make sure my kidneys aren’t shutting down.

Leonard: I mix pancake batter in this! 
Sheldon: No, that measuring cup has always been for urine.

Leonard: You had time to make a label for everything in this apartment, including the label maker, but you didn’t have ten seconds to make one that said urine cup? 
Sheldon: It’s right here on the bottom. 

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. Sheldon wakes up and coughs. Picks up an electronic thermometer and takes his temperature.
Sheldon: Oh, dear God. (Shouting) Leonard! Leonard, I’m sick!

Leonard (voice on phone): Hey.
Sheldon: Leonard, where are you? 

Leonard (running down stairs): I’m at work. 
Sheldon: At six-thirty in the morning? 

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: On Sunday? 

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Why? 

Leonard: They asked me to come in.
Sheldon: Well, I didn’t hear the phone ring.

Leonard: They texted me. 
Sheldon: Well, as I predicted, I am sick. My fever has been tracking up exponentially since 2am, and I am producing sputum at an alarming rate. 

Leonard: No kidding?
Sheldon: No. Not only that, it has shifted from clear to milky green. 

Leonard: Alright, well, get some rest and drink plenty of fluids. 
Sheldon: What else would I drink? Gasses? Solids? Ionised plasma?

Leonard: Drink whatever you want.
Sheldon: I want soup.

Leonard: Then make soup. 
Sheldon: We don’t have soup. 

Leonard: I’m at work, Sheldon. (A woman enters the apartment building with a barking dog.) 
Sheldon: Is that a dog?

Leonard: Yes, 
Sheldon: In the lab?

Howard: Hello.
Sheldon: Howard, I’m sick. 

Howard (imitating his mother’s voice): Howard’s sleeping, this is his mother. Why are you calling at this ungodly hour? 
Sheldon: I need soup.

Penny: No, just crazy. Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: I’m sick, thank you very much. 

Penny: How could you have gotten it from me, I’m not sick.
Sheldon: You’re a carrier. All these people here are doomed. You’re doomed! 

Penny: Shhh! Sheldon, what do you want.
Sheldon: I want soup.

Penny (over Sheldon’s strange throat clearance): Why didn’t you just…. (louder throat clearance) Why didn’t you just have soup at home. 
Sheldon: Penny, I have an IQ of 187, don’t you imagine that if there were a way for me to have had soup at home I would have thought of it?

Penny: You can have soup delivered.
Sheldon: I did not think of that. Clearly febrile delirium is setting in, please bring me some soup while I still understand what a spoon is for. 

Penny: Okay, what kind of soup do you want.
Sheldon: Well, my mother used to make me this split pea with little frankfurter slices and these home made croutons.

Penny: We have Chicken Tortilla and Potato Leek. 
Sheldon: Can I get any of those with little frankfurter slices and home made croutons?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Then surprise me. (Blows nose into handkerchief. Shows it to next table) Would you call that moss green or forest green? 

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: Thanks for bringing me home. 

Penny: Oh, it’s okay, I didn’t really need to work today, it’s not like I have rent or car payments or anything.
Sheldon: Good. Good.

Penny: Okay, well, you feel better.
Sheldon: Wait, where are you going? 

Penny: Um, home, to write some bad cheques.
Sheldon: You’re going to leave me? 

Penny: Sheldon, you are a grown man, haven’t you ever been sick before? 
Sheldon: Well, of course, but, not by myself. 

Penny: Really, never?
Sheldon: Well, once. When I was fifteen, and spending the summer at the Heidelberg Institute in Germany.

Penny: Studying abroad?
Sheldon: No, visiting professor. Anyway, the local cuisine was a little more sausage-based than I’m used to, and the result was an internal blitzkrieg with my lower intestine playing the part of Czechoslovakia. 

Penny: And there was no-one there to take care of you?
Sheldon: No. No, my mum had to fly back to Texas to help my dad because the house had slipped off the cinderblocks again. 

Penny: Again?
Sheldon: It was tornado season. And it was an aluminium house. Anyway, the housekeeper in the faculty residence didn’t speak any English, when I finally managed to convince her I was sick, she said “Möchtest Du eine Darmspülung?”

Penny: What does that mean?
Sheldon: Based on what happened next, I assume it means “would you like an enema?”

Penny: Okay, sweetie, I’ll take care of you, what do you need?
Sheldon: Well, my mom used to give me sponge baths. 

Penny: Okay, ground rules, no sponge baths, and definitely no enemas. 
Sheldon: Agreed. 

Penny: Okay, nice and cosy, okay, I’ll see you later.
Sheldon: Wait. Will you please rub this on my chest. 

Penny: Oh, Sheldon, can’t you do that yourself?
Sheldon: Vaporub makes my hands smell funny. 

Penny: But Sheldon….
Sheldon: Please, please, please, please, please, please, please.

Penny: I can’t believe I’m doing this. 
Sheldon: No, no, counter-clockwise or my chest hair mats. 

Penny: Sorry. 
Sheldon: Can you sing “Soft Kitty”. 

Penny: What?
Sheldon: My mom used to sing it to me when I was sick.

Penny: I’m sorry, honey, I don’t know it.
Sheldon: I’ll teach you. “Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur, happy kitty, sleepy kitty, purr purr purr.” Now you. 

Penny (after a loud sigh): Soft kitty, warm kitty…
Sheldon: Little ball of fur. Keep rubbing. 

Leonard: W-wait! 
Sheldon: Leonard, I’m hungry!

Leonard: Wait! Penny! Take me with you! (Runs after her and bumps into pillar. Falls semi-conscious to the floor.  Sheldon appears in his comforter.) 
Sheldon: I want grilled cheese. 

Time shift. Sheldon and Leonard are on the sofa. Sheldon is wrapped in his comforter, Leonard is holding an ice-pack to his head. 
Sheldon: Do you think Penny will come here and take care of us? 

Leonard: I don’t think Penny’s ever coming here again. 
Sheldon: I’m very congested. 

Leonard: Yeah, so?
Sheldon: Can you go to the kitchen, and get me the turkey baster labelled mucus.

Leonard: If I stand, I’ll vomit. 
Sheldon: Under the sink, yellow Tupperware bowl. 

Scene: The University cafeteria. 
Sheldon: Here’s the problem with teleportation.

Leonard: Lay it on me. 
Sheldon: Assuming the device could be invented which would identify the quantum state of matter of an individual in one location, and transmit that pattern to a distant location for reassembly, you would not have actually transported the individual. You would have destroyed him in one location, and recreated him in another.

Leonard: How about that. 
Sheldon: Personally, I would never use a transporter. Because the original Sheldon would have to be disintegrated in order to create a new Sheldon.

Leonard: Would the new Sheldon be in any way an improvement on the old Sheldon? 
Sheldon: No, he would be exactly the same. 

Leonard: That is a problem. 
Sheldon: So, you see it too.

Gablehouser: And he’s only fifteen years old.
Sheldon: Not bad, I myself started graduate school at fourteen.

Dennis: I already know you’re not. You don’t have an open science grid computer, or a free electron laser, and the string theory research being done here is nothing but a dead end. 
Sheldon: Excuse me, that is my research, and it is by no means a dead end.

Leonard: Yes sir. 
Sheldon: You can count on us, we’re on it. What the hell do you mean, dead end. 

Dennis: I mean, the whole landscape of false vacuums in string theory could be as large as ten to the five-hundredth power. In addition… ooh, look, chocolate milk. 
Sheldon: I sense a disturbance in the force. 

Dennis: That. 
Sheldon: He’s not wrong. Alright, and this is my office.

Dennis: Is this part of the tour? 
Sheldon: Nope. Goodbye. 

Leonard: Come on, Sheldon, we’ve hardly shown him anything.
Sheldon: Oh, alright, this is my desk, these are my books, this is my door, please close it behind you. Goodbye. 

Dennis: Looks like you’re doing work in quantum loop corrections.
Sheldon: Keen observation, goodbye. 

Dennis: You see where you went wrong, don’t you? 
Sheldon: Leonard.

Leonard: Huh, yeah? 
Sheldon: Get him out. 

Dennis: It’s startling to me you haven’t considered a Lorentz invariant field theory approach.
Sheldon: You think I haven’t considered it? You really think I haven’t considered it? 

Dennis: Have you considered it?
Sheldon: Get him out Leonard.

Dennis: Wow, you won the Stephenson award.
Sheldon: Yes, in fact I am the youngest person ever to win it. 

Dennis: Really, how old?
Sheldon: Fourteen and a half.

Leonard: Something you’d like to share? A tale of woe perhaps.
Sheldon: Fifteen years old. Dennis Kim is fifteen years old, and he’s already correcting my work. Today I went from being Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart to… you know, that other guy.

Howard: Antonio Salieri?
Sheldon: Oh, God, now even you’re smarter than me.

Leonard: Just eat, Sheldon, you’ll feel better. 
Sheldon: Why waste food. In Texas when a cow goes dry they don’t keep feeding it, they just take her out and shoot her between the eyes. 

Leonard: You can’t let this kid get to you. You always knew that someday someone would come along who was younger and smarter.
Sheldon: Yes, but I assumed I would have been dead hundreds of years, and that there would be an asterisk by his name because he would be a cyborg. 

Penny: So, you’ve got a bit of competition, I really don’t see what the big deal is. 
Sheldon: Well of course you don’t, you’ve never excelled at anything. 

Leonard: Well, what are you going to do, Sheldon, give up?
Sheldon: Yes. That’s what a rational person does when his entire life’s work is invalidated by a post-pubescent Asian wunderkind. He ceases his fruitless efforts, he donates his body to scientific research, and he waits to die. 

Scene: The same, later that night
Sheldon: Hey.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: I’ve decided you’re right. My career is not over. 

Leonard: Great.
Sheldon: But, since the arrival of Dennis Kim has rendered my research pointless, I just have to find something else to focus on.

Leonard: Great.
Sheldon: So I’ve decided, I’m going to collaborate with you.

Leonard: Great. 
Sheldon: What exactly is it you do? I know you chatter on about it all the time, but I’ve never really paid attention.

Leonard: Okay, well, right now I’m designing an experiment to study the soft component of cosmic radiation at sea-level, but I really don’t need any help. 
Sheldon: Oh, sure you do. Now, see, what’s this here in the schematic, is that a laser array?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: No. Hmmm. What happens if you use argon lasers instead of helium neon?

Leonard: It would blow up.
Sheldon: Are you sure? 

Leonard: Pretty sure.
Sheldon: Pretty sure’s not very scientific, is this how you normally work, just hunches and guesses and stuff?

Leonard: Okay, Sheldon, I understand that you’re going through a bit of a career crisis, you’re searching for some other area where you can feel valuable and productive but I need to tell you something and I want you to listen carefully. 
Sheldon: Alright.

Leonard: Go away.
Sheldon: If you’re concerned about sharing credit with me, you’re name can go first… I’m going. 

Howard (into phone): I’ll talk to you later. 
Sheldon: Engineering. Where the noble semi-skilled labourers execute the vision of those who think and dream. Hello, oompah-loompahs of science.

Howard: Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: I just came by to say hello.

Howard: I’ve been at this lab for three years, you’ve never came by to say hello.
Sheldon: Well, up until now I’ve had better things to do. So, what are we making today? 

Howard: A small payload support structure for a European science experimental package that’s going up on the next space shuttle. 
Sheldon: Really, how does it work?

Howard: When this is done, it will be attached to the payload bay, and the sensor apparatus will rest on it. 
Sheldon: Uh, huh. So it’s a shelf? 

Howard: No, you don’t understand, during acceleration it needs to stay perfectly level and provide… yeah, okay, it’s a shelf. 
Sheldon: Now, I notice you’re using titanium, did you give any consideration to carbon nanotubes, they’re lighter, cheaper and half twice the tensile strength.

Howard: Sheldon, there’s a diploma in my office that says I have a masters in engineering.
Sheldon: And you also have a note from your mother that says I love you, bubbula. But neither of those is a cogent argument for titanium over nanotubes. 

Howard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yes.

Howard: Go away. 
Sheldon: Did Leonard tell you to say that? 

Howard: No, I thought of it all by myself. 
Sheldon: Huh. It can’t be a coincidence. There must be some causal link I’m missing.

Raj: Go away. (Sheldon exits)
Sheldon: Curiouser and curiouser. 

Gablehouser (entering): Dr Cooper? Oh, are we interrupting?
Sheldon: No, no, please, come in. Yeah, I think you’ll appreciate this, very exciting.

Gablehouser: Oh, what are you working on?
Sheldon: Something remarkable. Since my prospects for the Nobel Prize in physics have disappeared, thank you very much, I’ve decided to refocus my efforts and use my people skills to win the Nobel Peace Prize. Look, I’m going to solve the Middle-East Crisis by building an exact replica of Jerusalem in the middle of the Mexican desert. 

Gablehouser: To what end?
Sheldon: You know, it’s like the baseball movie, build it and they will come. 

Gablehouser: Who will come?
Sheldon: The Jewish people.

Gablehouser: What if they don’t come.
Sheldon: We’ll make it nice, put out a spread. 

Gablehouser: Okay, well, um, speaking of spreads, we’re having a small welcoming party this afternoon for Mr Kim, who’s agreed to join us here at the University.
Sheldon: Of course he has, the oracle told us little Neo was the one. You can see the Matrix, can’t you.

Scene: The welcoming party
Sheldon: I really don’t understand your objections, Professor Goldfarb, why wouldn’t the Senoran Desert make a perfectly good promised land?

Goldfarb: Go away. 
Sheldon: We could call it Nuevo Cherusalem. 

Goldfarb: Please go away. 
Sheldon: Said Pharoah to Moses. 

Howard: I don’t think you mean we can’t. I think you mean we shouldn’t. 
Sheldon: Hey, Howard. You’re a Jew. If there was another wailing wall, exactly like the one in Jerusalem, but close to taco stands and cheap prescription drugs, would you still be able to wail at it? Okay, it’s definitely me. 

Gablehouser: Mr Kim was not only the valedictorian at Stamford University, he is also the youngest recipient of the prestigious Stephenson Award.
Sheldon: Youngest till the cyborgs rise up! 

Leonard: Yeah, we really ruined his life. 
Sheldon: Screw him, he was weak. 

Raj: I’d be more interested in a scene depicting Spock’s conception. 
Sheldon: Oh, please. For Vulcans, mating, or, if you will, Pon Farr, it’s an extremely private matter.

Raj: Good story. (Clasps hands to mouth in shock.) 
Sheldon: Well count me out.

Howard: What? Why?
Sheldon: You want me to use my intelligence in a tawdry competition? Would you ask Picasso to play Pictionary? Would you ask Noah Webster to play Boggle? Would you ask Jacques Cousteau to play Go Fish? 

Leonard: Come on, you need a four person team, we’re four people. 
Sheldon: By that reasoning we should also play bridge, hold up a chuppah and enter the Olympic bobsled competition.

Leonard: Sheldon, what, do I need to quote Spock’s dying words to you.
Sheldon: No, don’t. 

Howard: Outweigh the needs of the few. 
Sheldon: Or the one. Dammit, I’ll do it. 

Raj: I like it.
Sheldon: I don’t. Teams are traditionally named after fierce creatures, thus intimidating ones opponent.

Raj: Then we can be the Bengal Tigers.
Sheldon: Poor choice. Gram for gram, no animal exceeds the relative fighting strength of the army ant. 

Leonard: Let’s put it to a vote. All those in favour….
Sheldon: Point of order. I move that any vote on team names should be unanimous. No man should be forced to emblazon his chest with the bengal tiger, when common sense dictates it should be an army ant. 

Leonard: Will the gentleman from the great state of denial yield for a question? 
Sheldon: I will yield.

Leonard: After we go through the exercise of an annoying series of votes, all of which the gentleman will lose, does he then intend to threaten to quit if he does not get his way?
Sheldon: He does. 

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Of course. 

Penny: Okay, the first question is on the topic of optics. What is the shortest light pulse ever produced? Dr Cooper.
Sheldon: And of course, the answer is 130 adoseconds.

Penny: Good for you, sweetie. Okay, next question. What is the quantum mechanical effect used to encode data on hard disk drives? Howard.
Sheldon: And of course, the answer is giant magneto resistance.

Howard: Hey, I buzzed in. 
Sheldon: But I answered, it’s called teamwork. 

Howard: Don’t you think I should answer the engineering questions? I am an engineer.
Sheldon: By that logic I should answer all the anthropology questions because I’m a mammal.  

Penny: Okay. What artificial satellite has seen glimpses of Einsteins predicted frame dragging? (Raj buzzes.)
Sheldon: And of course it’s Gravity Probe B.

Leonard: Sheldon, you have to let somebody else answer. 
Sheldon: Why? 

Penny: Because it’s polite.
Sheldon: What do manners have to do with it? This is war. Were the Romans polite when they salted the ground of Carthage to make sure nothing would ever grow again?

Penny: Leonard, you said I only had to ask questions. 
Sheldon: The objective of the competition is to give correct answers, if I know them, why shouldn’t I give them? 

Howard: Some of us might have the correct answers too. 
Sheldon: Oh please, you don’t even have a PhD. 

Leonard: maybe we should take a little break.
Sheldon: Good idea, I need my wrist brace, all this button pushing is aggravating my old Nintendo injury. 

Scene: The same, later. Sheldon is on his laptop. Leonard enters.
Sheldon: Leonard, excellent, I want to show you something.

Leonard: Can it wait, I need to talk to you.
Sheldon: Just look. I’ve designed the perfect uniforms for our team. The colours are based on Star Trek, the original series. The three of you will wear support red, and I will wear command gold. 

Leonard: Why do they say AA? 
Sheldon: Army Ants. 

Leonard: Isn’t that confusing? AA might mean something else to certain people. 
Sheldon: Why would a physics bowl team be called anodised aluminium?

Leonard: No, I meant…. never mind. Hey, check it out. I got you a Batman cookie jar!
Sheldon: Oh neat, what’s the occasion?

Leonard: Well, you’re a friend, and you like Batman, and cookies, and you’re off the team. 
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: Howard, Raj and I just had a team meeting. 
Sheldon: No you didn’t.

Leonard: Yes we did, I just came from it.
Sheldon: Okay, I don’t know where you just came from, but it couldn’t have been a team meeting because I’m on the team and I wasn’t there, ergo the team did not meet. 

Leonard: Okay, let me try it this way, uh, I was at a coffee klatch with a couple of friends and one thing led to another and it turns out you’re off the team. 
Sheldon: Why?

Leonard: Because you’re taking all the fun out of it.
Sheldon: Well, I’m sorry, is the winner of the physics bowl the team that has the most fun?

Leonard: Okay, let me try it this way, you’re annoying and no-one wants to play with you any more. 
Sheldon: I see. Well. At this point I should inform you that I intend to form my own team and destroy the molecular bonds that bind your very matter together, and reduce the resulting particulate chaos to tears.

Leonard: Thanks for the heads up. 
Sheldon: You’re welcome. One more thing.

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: It’s on, bitch. 

Leonard: So, is that your team.
Sheldon: Actually, I don’t need a team, I could easily defeat you single-handedly. But the rules require four, so may I introduce, the third floor janitor, he lady from the lunchroom, and, my Spanish is not good, either her son or her butcher. And what about your team? What rat have you recruited to the SS Sinking Ship?

Leslie: Hello, Sheldon. 
Sheldon: Leslie Winkle? 

Leslie: Yeah, Leslie Winkle. The answer to the question, who made Sheldon Cooper cry like a little girl? 
Sheldon: Yes, well, I’m polymerised tree sap and you’re non-organic adhesive so, whatever verbal projectile you launch in my direction is reflected off of me, returns on its original trajectory, and adheres to you. 

Gablehouser: Correct. 
Sheldon: Formal protest.

Gablehouser: On what grounds?
Sheldon: The Velcro on my wrist brace caught on my shirt.

Gablehouser: Denied. Alright, for ten points, what is the lightest element on earth with no stable isotope. (Buzz) AA?
Sheldon: And of course, the answer is Technetium.

(Time shift)
Sheldon: 4.1855 times ten to the seventh ergs per calorie.

(Time shift)
Sheldon: Lamda equals one over Pi R squared N 

(Time shift)
Sheldon: A sigma particle.

Third Floor Janitor: The answer is minus eight by alpha. 
Sheldon: Hang on, hang on a second, that’s not our answer. What are you doing?

Third Floor Janitor: Answering question. Winning physics bowl. 
Sheldon: How do you know anything about physics?

Third Floor Janitor: Here I am janitor, in former Soviet Union I am physicist. Leningrad Politechnica. Go Polar Bears. 
Sheldon: Well that’s a delightful little story, but our arrangement was that you sit here and not say anything, I answer the questions.

Third Floor Janitor: You didn’t answer question.
Sheldon: Hey look, now maybe you have democracy now in your beloved Russia, but on this physics bowl team I rule with an iron fist. (Makes fist in the air). Ow!

Gablehouser: AA, I need your official answer.
Sheldon: Well it’s not what he said.

Gablehouser: Then what is it? 
Sheldon: I want a different question.

Gablehouser: You can’t have a different question. 
Sheldon: Formal protest.

Gablehouser: Denied.
Sheldon: Informal protest.

Gablehouser: Denied. I need your official answer.
Sheldon: No. I decline to provide one.

Gablehouser: Well, that’s too bad, because the answer your teammate gave was correct. 
Sheldon: That’s your opinion.

Leonard: Hang on. Sheldon, is proving that you are single-handedly smarter than everyone else so important that you would rather lose by yourself than win as part of a team. 
Sheldon: I don’t understand the question. 

Leonard: Sorry, somebody’s sitting there.
Sheldon: Who?

Leonard: My Physics Bowl Trophy! 
Sheldon: That trophy is meaningless, I forfeited, therefore you did not win. 

Leonard: I know someone who would disagree.
Sheldon: Who?

Leonard: My Physics Bowl Trophy! (In weird voice) “Leonard is so smart, Sheldon who?”
Sheldon: Alright that is very immature.

Penny: I’m settling once and for all who is the smartest around here. Okay, are you ready?
Sheldon: Absolutely.

Penny: I go outside and I talk to people. Alright, here, what actor holds the record for being named people magazine’s sexiest man alive?
Sheldon: William Shatner.

Leonard: Wait, I don’t think it’s Shatner.
Sheldon: Then it’s got to be Patrick Stewart. 

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Formal protest. 

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Well, this sandwich is an unmitigated disaster. I asked for turkey and roast beef with lettuce and swiss on wholewheat.

Raj: What did they give you?
Sheldon: Turkey and roast beef with swiss and lettuce on wholewheat. It’s the right ingredients but in the wrong order. In a proper sandwich the cheese is adjacent to the bread to create a moisture barrier against the lettuce. They might as well have dragged this thing through a car wash. 

Leonard: I don’t believe it.
Sheldon: I know, it’s basic culinary science. 

Leonard: Yeah. And that’s my bid.
Sheldon: You bid $800.

Leonard: It was a spur of the moment thing, I figured it would go for thousands and I just wanted to be a part of it. 
Sheldon: There’s only 30 seconds left in the auction.

Howard: You lucky duck. 
Sheldon: I wonder why no-one else bid, this is a classic piece of sci-fi movie memorabilia. 

Raj: A time share time machine? I’m in. Sheldon?
Sheldon: Need you ask? But I still don’t understand why no-one else bid. 

Scene: The lobby. The guys stand around a full sized time machine. 
Sheldon: I understand why no-one else bid. 

Leonard: I just assumed. Who sells a full sized time machine for $800?
Sheldon: In a venn diagram, that would be an individual located within the intersection of the sets “no longer want my time machine” and “need $800”.

Leonard: Yes but the elevator’s been broken for two years. 
Sheldon: I’ve been meaning to ask you, do you think we should make a call about that? 

Raj (off): I can’t feel my fingers, hurry up. 
Sheldon: It’s the same amount of work no matter how fast you go, basic physics.

Raj: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yeah. 

Penny: I don’t have a few minutes, I’m running really late.
Sheldon: Then I have a simple solution, go up to the roof, hop over to the next building, there’s a small gap, don’t look down if you’re subject to vertigo, and use their stairwell. 

Penny: You’re joking, right?
Sheldon: Oh, I never joke when it comes to vertigo. 

Leonard: Hey, if you wait for us to set up the time machine, I can drop you off at work yesterday. Time travel joke, it’s not… never mind. 
Sheldon: For what it’s worth, I thought it was humorous. 

Scene: The living room. The time machine is set up.
Sheldon: I don’t know what you were worried about. I think it really works in the room.

Leonard: Yeah. It is by far the coolest thing I have ever owned. 
Sheldon: The exact time machine that carried actor Rod Taylor from Victorian England into the post-apocalyptic future, which society had splintered into two factions, the sub-terranean Morlocks, who survived by feasting on the flesh of the gentle surface dwelling Eloy. 

Raj: Oh yeah. The guy who lives next to me is always like, I have a Jacuzzi on my balcony, I have a Jacuzzi on my balcony. But wait until I tell him, I’ve got a time machine on my balcony. Stuff that in your speedos, Jacuzzi Bob!
Sheldon: Gentlemen, I know we said we’d take turns, but I think you’d agree that practicality dictates it remain here. 

Raj: He’s got a point.
Sheldon: Alright, I think we’re going to need some ground rules, in addition to the expected no shoes in the time machine and no eating in the time machine, I propose that we add pants must be worn at all times in the time machine. 

Leonard: That sounds fair.
Sheldon: Hold on. Bi-monthly is an ambiguous term, do you mean move it every other month, or twice a month? 

Raj: Twice a month.
Sheldon: Then no. 

Raj: Okay, every other month.
Sheldon: No. 

Howard: Good choice, Alexander Graham Bell invents the telephone and calls out for Dr Watson.
Sheldon: Wait a minute, I’d want to see that too. 

Leonard: So, when it’s your turn you can.
Sheldon: But if we all go back to the same point in time, Bell’s lab is going to get very crowded, he’ll know something’s up. 

Raj: Mrs Bell was deaf, she’s not even going to hear you knock. 
Sheldon: Oh, I have a solution, first go into the future and obtain a cloaking device.

Raj: Ooh, how far into the future?
Sheldon: If I remember correctly, Captain Kirk will steal a cloaking device from the Romulans on Stardate 5027.3, which will be January 10th 2328 by pre-federation reckoning.

Penny: Not done. By the time I finally got to work, they’d given my shift away. Yeah, that’s right, I’ve lost an entire day’s pay thanks to this… this…
Sheldon: Time machine. 

Penny: No! I don’t want to try it, my God, you are grown men, how could you waste your lives with these stupid toys and costumes and comic books and… and now that… that…
Sheldon: Again, time machine. 

Penny: Oh please, it’s not a time machine, if anything it looks like something Elton John would drive through the Everglades.
Sheldon: It only moves in time. It would be worse than useless in a swamp. 

Scene: Later that night, Leonard is sitting in the time machine, turning the lights on and off. Sheldon enters.
Sheldon: Leonard, it’s two in the morning. 

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: So it’s my turn. Why did you set it for the day before yesterday?

Leonard: Because I want to go back and keep myself from getting a time machine.
Sheldon: You can’t. If you were to prevent yourself from buying it in the past, you would not have it available in the present to travel back and stop yourself from buying it, ergo you would still have it. This is a classic rookie time travel mistake. 

Leonard: Can I go back and prevent you from explaining that to me?
Sheldon: Same paradox. If you were to travel back in time and, say, knock me unconscious, you would not then have the conversation that irritated you, motivating you to go back and knock me unconscious. 

Leonard: What if I knocked you unconscious right now? 
Sheldon: It won’t change the past. 

Leonard: But it would make the present so much nicer. 
Sheldon: Are you upset about something? 

Leonard: What was your first clue?
Sheldon: Well, it was a number of things. First the late hour, then your demeanour seems very low energy, plus your irritability…

Leonard: Yes I’m upset. 
Sheldon: Oh! I don’t usually pick up on those things. Good for me. 

Leonard: Yeah, good for you. 
Sheldon: Oh, wait. Did you want to talk about what’s bothering you? 

Leonard: I don’t know. Maybe.
Sheldon: Wow, I’m on fire tonight. 

Leonard: Uh, here’s the thing. Girls like Penny never end up with guys who own time machines. 
Sheldon: I disagree. Your inability to successfully woo Penny long predates your acquisition of the time machine. That failure clearly stands on its own.

Leonard: Thanks for pointing it out.
Sheldon: In addition, your premise is flawed. In the original film, Rod Taylor got Yvette Mimeaux with that very time machine. In Back to the Future, Marty McFly got the opportunity to hook up with his extremely attractive young mother. 

Leonard: Those are movies.
Sheldon: Well of course they’re movies. Were you expecting me to come up with an example involving a real life time machine? That’s absurd. 

Penny: Oh, Leonard. (Kisses him as they descend from view. Leonard wakes up still sitting in the time machine.)
Sheldon: It’s still my turn.

Scene: The living room. 
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Leonard: I’m packing up all my collectibles and taking them down to the comic book store to sell. 
Sheldon: Well is that really necessary. If you need money you can always sell blood. And semen. 

Leonard: Just… personal reasons. 
Sheldon: My spidey-sense tells me this has something to do with Penny. 

Raj: Dude, everyone knows a time machine loses half its value the minute you drive it off the lot.
Sheldon: I’ll go for two hundred, that time machine stays right where it is. 

Raj: I can and I did, look up dibs on Wikipedia.
Sheldon: Dibs doesn’t apply in a bidding war. 

Leonard: He offered me a fair price for the whole collection.
Sheldon: What’s the number, I’ll match it. 

Raj: I’ll match it, plus a thousand rupees. 
Sheldon: What’s the exchange rate.

Leonard: Forget it guys, if I sell to one of you, the other two are going to be really mad at me.
Sheldon: Who cares, as long as you pick me. 

Penny (coming out of her flat): What the hell’s going on? 
Sheldon: You hypocrite!

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Little Miss “grown ups don’t play with toys”. If I were to go into that apartment right now, would I find Beanie Babies? Are you not an accumulator of Care Bears and My Little Ponies? And who is that Japanese feline I see frolicking on your shorts? Hello,Hello Kitty! 

Scene: A jungle. As the camera moves, the time machine becomes visible. Sheldon is sitting in it The disk stops spinning, and he looks around. The dials read APR 28 802,701. 
Sheldon: It worked. It really worked. They said I was mad, but it worked. (Large hairy creatures with glowing eyes emerge from the forest and walk towards him menacingly.) Oh no, not Morlocks! Not flesh-eating Morlocks! He-e-e-e-e-e-e-elp! (With a yelp, he wakes up in the time machine in the living room.) 

Leonard: Sheldon, are you okay? 
Sheldon: We have to get rid of the time machine. 

Leonard: It is a little big for the living room, isn’t it?
Sheldon: Yeah, that’s the problem, it’s too big. 

Leonard: I’m glad you agree. I hired some guys to help us move it, come on in fellas. (A pair of Morlocks come through the door.)
Sheldon: Oh no, Morlocks? Eat him, eat him. Aaaaargh. (Sheldon wakes up in his own bed.) Leonard!!!!!!!!

Girl: Well, that should do it.
Sheldon: Thank you for coming by. (He rises from his desk. Everyone rushes to look nonchalant.) Hello.

Leonard: Oh, hey buddy. 
Sheldon: Buddy.

Howard: Sorry I’m late, I’m working on a project that may take me up on the next space shuttle.
Sheldon: How can you be late, I wasn’t expecting you at all. 

Leonard: Sheldon, are you going to introduce us? 
Sheldon: Oh, alright, this is Missy, Missy this is Leonard and Rajesh and you’ve already met Howard. 

Leonard: Excuse me?
Sheldon: She’s my twin sister, she thinks she’s funny but frankly I’ve never been able to see it.

Missy: It’s because you have no measurable sense of humour, Shelly.
Sheldon: How exactly would one measure a sense of humour? A humourmometer? 

Missy: Okay, so let me see if I got this. Leonard, Howard and… I’m sorry what was your name again. (Raj looks uncomfortable, turns and walks away, disappears round corner. He then reappears, takes the orange paper from the noticeboard and leaves again.)
Sheldon: Rajesh. 

Missy: And I had to drop off some papers for Shelly to sign for my dad’s estate.
Sheldon: The papers could have been mailed, Mom just sent you here to spy on me, didn’t she.

Missy: I guess that’s why they call you a genius. 
Sheldon: They call me a genius because I’m a genius. Tell Mom that I currently weigh 165 pounds, and that I’m having regular bowel movements. Enjoy the wedding, goodbye.

Missy: Oh, I don’t think so. Shelly doesn’t like company. Even as a little boy he’d send his imaginary friends home at the end of the day. 
Sheldon: They were not friends, they were imaginary colleagues. 

Leonard: Look, you’re here, we have plenty of room.
Sheldon: No we don’t.

Howard: Come on, Shelly, she’s family.
Sheldon: So what? I don’t issue invitations to your mother.

Missy: Well it would be nice not to have to drive out to Anaheim in rush hour.
Sheldon: And don’t ever call me Shelly.

Howard: I’ll walk you to your car. You’re in structure 3 level C, right? 
Sheldon: What just happened?

Leonard: Hee-hee, just classic. 
Sheldon: I needed a place to fire ceramic semi-conductor substrates for home-made integrated circuits. 

Missy: He was trying to build some kind of armed robot to keep me out of his room.
Sheldon: Made necessary by her insistence on going into my room.

Missy: Yep. I had to go through the entire second grade with crooked eyebrows my Mom drew on.
Sheldon: Is that what that was? I just assumed that the second grade curriculum had rendered you quizzical. 

Howard: Can I get a hallelujah. 
Sheldon: Fraternal twins come from two separate eggs, they are no more alike than any other siblings.

Penny: Sheldon, why are you ignoring your sister?
Sheldon: I’m not ignoring my sister. I’m ignoring all of you. 

Leonard: Hell, no! 
Sheldon: Excuse me, can I interject something. I’m ordering pizza online, is everyone okay with pepperoni? 

Leonard: Sheldon, can I talk to you in private?
Sheldon: I guess. Don’t worry, I was going to order you cheeseless.

Leonard: Thank you. 
Sheldon: That’s okay. Lactose intolerance is nothing to be embarrassed about. 

Leonard: Sheldon, are you aware that your sister is an incredibly attractive woman?
Sheldon: Hmmm? She certainly has the symmetry and low body fat that western culture deems desirable. It’s noteworth that at other points in history, heavier women were the standard for beauty because their girth suggested affluence. 

Leonard: That’s fascinating, but I…
Sheldon: I didn’t say it was fascinating, I said it was noteworthy.

Leonard: Alright, noted. But my point is that Koothrappali and Wolowitz… they’re hitting on your sister. 
Sheldon: Oh. Okay. You know, I don’t want to criticise your rhetorical style but, we’d be a lot further along in this conversation if you’d begun with that thought. 

Leonard: That’s great, but I….
Sheldon: What I’m saying is that we took quite an unnecessary detour from what I now understand to be your thesis.

Leonard: Whatever. You have to do something about it.
Sheldon: Why?

Leonard: Because she’s your sister. 
Sheldon: I don’t understand. Yes, we shared a uterus for nine months, but since then we’ve pretty much gone our own separate ways. 

Leonard: Okay, uh…. oh, consider this. With your father gone, it is your responsibility to make sure that Missy chooses a suitable mate. 
Sheldon: I hadn’t considered that. We do share DNA.

Leonard: Uh-huh. 
Sheldon: So there is the possibility, however remote, that resting in her loins is the potential for another individual as remarkable as myself. 

Leonard: Exactly. And, you owe it to yourself and to posterity to protect the genetic integrity of your sister’s future offspring. 
Sheldon: You’re right. If someone wants to get at Missy’s fallopian tubes, they’ll have to go through me. 

Howard: I’m warning you, I was judo champion at math camp. 
Sheldon: Alright, that’s enough juvenile squabbling, stop it, stop it I say. I’m going to settle this right now. Neither of you are good enough for my sister. 

Leonard: He’s the man of his family, you have to respect his wishes.
Sheldon: You’re out too, by the way.

Leonard: Say what?
Sheldon: It’s nothing personal, I’d just prefer if my future niece or nephew didn’t become flatulent every time they eat an Eskimo pie. 

Raj: I’m not happy, it’s the medication, I can’t stop smiling. (Waves hand at mouth. It keeps waving.)
Sheldon: Now that Leonard’s made me aware of how high the genetic stakes are, we have to face the fact that none of you are suitable mates for my sister. 

Raj: Excuse me, but I think you’re missing a big opportunity here. 
Sheldon: How so?

Raj: Everybody knows genetic diversity produces the strongest offspring. Why not put a little mocha in the family latte. 
Sheldon: In principle you have a point, but as a practical matter, need I remind you that it takes experimental pharmaceuticals to simply enable you to speak to the opposite sex.

Howard: Is it ‘cause I’m Jewish, ‘cause I’d kill my Rabbi with a porkchop to be with your sister.
Sheldon: This has nothing to do with religion. This has to do with the fact that you’re a tiny, tiny man who still lives with his mother. 

Leonard: Sheldon, you are really being unreasonable. 
Sheldon: Am I? Here. Eat this cheese without farting and you can sleep with my sister. 

Missy (who has just entered): Oh really? 
Sheldon: Oops. 

Missy: Shelly, can I speak to you for a minute? Alone? 
Sheldon: Why does everyone suddenly want to talk to me alone? Usually nobody wants to be alone with me.   

Missy: Okay. I’m not even going to ask why you’re pimping me out for cheese. But since when do you care at all about who I sleep with? 
Sheldon: Truthfully, I’ve never given it any thought, but it has been pointed out to me that you carry DNA of great potential.

Missy: What on earth are you talking about? 
Sheldon: Let me explain. You see, I’m a superior genetic mutation, an improvement on the existing mediocre stock. 

Missy: And what do you mean, mediocre stock? 
Sheldon: That would be you. But residing within you is the potential for another me. Perhaps even taller, smarter and less prone to freckling, a Sheldon 2.0 if you will. 

Missy: Sheldon 2.0?
Sheldon: Exactly. Now, I am not saying that I should be the sole decider of who you mate with. If you’re not attracted to the suitor then the likelihood of conception would be reduced.

Missy: You have got to be kidding me! 
Sheldon: Not at all. Frequent coitus dramatically increases the odds of fertiliziation. 

Missy: Okay Shelly, sit down. Now I’ve lived my whole life dealing with the fact that my twin brother is, as Mom puts it, one of God’s special little people. 
Sheldon: I always thought I was more like a cuckoo bird. You know, a superior creature whose egg is placed in the nest of ordinary birds. Of course the newly hatched cuckoo eats all the food, leaving the ordinary siblings to starve to death. Luckily for you, that’s where the metaphor ended. 

Missy: I thought it ended at cuckoo. Now you listen to me, if you want to start acting like a brother who cares about me, then terrific. Bring it on. But you try one time to tell me who I should be sleeping with, and you and I are going to go round and round the way we did when we were little. Remember? (Sheldon hurriedly crosses his legs.) 
Sheldon: I have an alternate proposal. 

Missy: Go on.
Sheldon: You donate eggs. We will place them in cryogenic storage. I will find an appropriate sperm donor for your eggs, have them fertilized and implanted in you, that way everybody wins. 

Scene: The living room. Sheldon enters limping, holding his groin area. 
Sheldon: Correction. Missy can date whoever she wants. 

Leonard: Stay down, bitch. Yeah, ha ha, natural selection at work.
Sheldon: I weep for humanity. 

Missy: Any news you want me to pass along to Mom?
Sheldon: Well, she might be interested to know that I have refocused my research from bosonic string theory to heteronic string theory. 

Missy: Yeah, I’ll just tell her you said hey.
Sheldon: Okay, well, it was pleasant seeing you, other than that business with my testicles. (Holds out hand to shake.)

Missy: Come on, Shelly. (Hugs him. He looks uncomfortable, then hugs back half heartedly.) I want you to know I’m very proud of you.
Sheldon: Really?

Missy: Yup, I’m always bragging to my friends about my brother the rocket scientist. 
Sheldon: You tell people I’m a rocket scientist?

Missy: Well yeah.
Sheldon: I’m a theoretical physicist.

Missy: What’s the difference?
Sheldon: What’s the difference?

Missy: Goodbye Shelly.
Sheldon: My God! Why don’t you just tell them I’m a toll taker at the Golden Gate Bridge? Rocket scientist, how humiliating. 

Penny: Yeah, that’s terrific, but what they wanted me to ask you was to cut it the hell out. (To someone off) Right come on guys, come on. (Singing while approaching another table) Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you…
Sheldon: We might as well stop, it’s a stalemate. You’re beating me in tetris, but you’ve got the upper body strength of a Keebler Elf.

Penny: So Leonard, will we be seeing you on Saturday for your free birthday cheesecake?
Sheldon: He can’t eat cheesecake, he’s lactose intolerant. 

Penny: Okay, he can have carrot cake.
Sheldon: What about the cream cheese frosting.

Penny: I did your horoscope, remember, I was going to do everybody’s until Sheldon went on one of his typical psychotic rants.
Sheldon: For the record, that psychotic rant was a concise summation of the research of Bertram Forer, who in 1948 proved conclusively through meticulously designed experiments, that astrology is nothing but pseudo scientific hokum. 

Penny: Uh, that’s so silly.
Sheldon: It’s actually based on very sound theories, his mother published a paper on it. 

Penny: What was it called, “I hate my son and that’s why he can’t have cake?” 
Sheldon: It was obviously effective, Leonard grew up to be an experimental physicist. Perhaps if she’d also denied him Christmas he’d be a little better at it. 

Penny: I know. I want to talk to you. 
Sheldon: What would we talk about? We’ve no overlapping areas of interest I’m aware of, and you know I don’t care for chit-chat. 

Penny: Okay, can you just let me in.
Sheldon: Well alright, but I don’t see this as a promising endeavour.

Penny: Okay, here’s the deal, we are going to throw Leonard a kick-ass surprise party for his birthday on Saturday.
Sheldon: I hardly think so, Leonard made it very clear he doesn’t want a party.

Howard: Fine. If I do have a threesome, you can’t be part of it. I’m just kidding, yes you can. Can you bring a friend? 
Sheldon: I think a birthday party is a terrible idea. I envy Leonard for growing up without that anguish. 

Penny: Anguish?
Sheldon: Year after year, I had to endure wearing conical hats while being forced into the crowded sweaty hell of bouncy castles, not to mention being blindfolded and spun towards a grotesque tailless donkey as the other children mocked my disorientation. 

Penny: Okay, sweetie, I understand you have scars that no non-professional can heal, but nevertheless we are going to throw Leonard a birthday party. 
Sheldon: Have I pointed out that I am extremely uncomfortable with dancing, loud music and most other forms of alcohol induced frivolity. 

Penny: Nevertheless we are….
Sheldon: In addition I really don’t think that Leonard wants a…

Penny: Okay, here’s the deal, you either help me throw Leonard a birthday party or, so help me God, I will go into your bedroom and I will unbag all of your most valuable mint condition comic books. And on one of them, you won’t know which, I’ll draw a tiny happy face in ink. 
Sheldon: You can’t do that, if you make a mark on a mint comic book it’s no longer mint.

Penny: Sheldon, do you understand the concept of blackmail?
Sheldon: Well of course I… oh! Yeah, I have an idea, let’s throw Leonard a kick ass birthday party.

Scene: Howard and Raj sneak up the stairwell carrying presents. Howard knocks on Penny’s door, a combination of two knocks, two knocks, one knock. Nothing happens. He tries again. Sheldon opens the door. 
Sheldon: That’s not the secret knock. This is the secret knock. (He knocks two, one, two.)

Howard: What difference does it make?
Sheldon: The whole point of a secret knock is to establish a non-verbal signal to verify the identity of one’s co-conspirators. 

Penny: Is that Raj and Howard?
Sheldon: Possibly, but unverified.

Howard: Can you just let us in.
Sheldon: Luckily for you this is not a nuclear reactor. 

Penny: Uh, Sheldon, I didn’t see your present.
Sheldon: That’s because I didn’t bring one.

Howard: Don’t ask.
Sheldon: The entire institution of gift giving makes no sense.

Howard: Too late.
Sheldon: Let’s say that I go out and I spend fifty dollars on you, it’s a laborious activity, because I have to imagine what you need, whereas you know what you need. Now I can simplify things, just give you the fifty dollars directly and, you could give me fifty dollars on my birthday, and so on until one of us dies leaving the other one old and fifty dollars richer. And I ask you, is it worth it? 

Penny: Well, Sheldon, you’re his friend. Friends give each other presents.
Sheldon: I accept your premise, I reject your conclusion.

Penny: It’s a non-optional social convention.
Sheldon: Oh. Fair enough. 

Howard: He came with a manual. 
Sheldon: Question, how am I going to get Leonard a present before the party? I don’t drive, and the only things available within walking distance are a Thai restaurant and a gas station. I suppose I could wrap up an order of mee krob and a couple of lottery scratchers. 

Penny: Alright, you know they have DVDs over there.
Sheldon: Yes, but they have DVD burners over here. Leonard needs a DVD burner. 

Penny: Sheldon, a gift shouldn’t be something someone needs, it should be something fun, you know, something they wouldn’t buy for themselves.
Sheldon: You mean, like a sweater? 

Penny: Well, it’s a fun sweater, it’s got a bold geometric print. 
Sheldon: Is it the geometry that makes it fun.

Penny: Okay, the point is, one of the ways we show we care about people is by putting thought and imagination into the gifts we give them. 
Sheldon: Okay, I see, so not a DVD burner.

Penny: Exactly.
Sheldon: Something he wouldn’t buy for himself. Something fun. Something like… oh, an 802.11n wireless router. 

Scene: The store. Sheldon is looking at two routers.
Sheldon: What do you think.

Penny (pointing randomly): Um, that one. 
Sheldon: Because of the two additional Ethernet ports.

Penny: Sure.
Sheldon: He doesn’t need them, he’s already got a 640 connect switch 

Penny: Oh, okay then this one. 
Sheldon: Why? 

Penny: I don’t know, the man on the box looks so happy. 
Sheldon: Penny! If I’m going to buy Leonard a gift, I’m going to do it right. I refuse to let him experience the same childhood trauma I did. 

Penny: Oh, I know I’m going to regret this but, what trauma? 
Sheldon: On my twelfth birthday I really wanted a titanium centrifuge, so, you know, I could separate radioactive isotopes. 

Penny: Of course.
Sheldon: Instead of a titanium centrifuge, my parents bought me… wow, this is hard. They got me… a motorised dirt bike. 

Penny: No? 
Sheldon: What twelve year old boy wants a motorised dirt bike? 

Penny: All of them.
Sheldon: Really?

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Huh? 

Penny: Okay, so we’re getting this one?
Sheldon: Yeah, I suppose. 

Random woman: Excuse me, do you know anything about this stuff? 
Sheldon: I know everything about this stuff.

Penny: Here, buy this one. Look, it’s the one we’re getting, see, happy guy available. 
Sheldon: No, no, no, no, she doesn’t want that, she needs a point to point peer network with a range extender.

Random guy: Which hard drive do I want, firewire or USB?
Sheldon: It depends on what Bus you have.

Guy: I drive a Chevy Cavalier.
Sheldon: Oh, dear lord.

Penny: Sheldon, we have to go.
Sheldon: Not now, Penny, this poor man needs me. (To woman approaching) You hold on, I’ll be right with you. What computer do you have, and please don’t say a white one?

Scene: The store. Sheldon is on the in-store computer. 
Sheldon: Okay, we don’t have that in stock, but I can special order it for you.

Assistant: Excuse me, sir, you don’t work here. 
Sheldon: Yes, well, apparently neither does anyone else. 

Penny: Sheldon, we have to go.
Sheldon: Why? 

Penny: Keep walking.
Sheldon: Yeah, 1-2-3-4 is not a secure password. 

Scene: The apartment living room
Sheldon: Wo de zhing shi Sheldon.

Howard: No, it’s Wo de ming zi shi Sheldon. (Makes a hand movement with every syllable.)
Sheldon: Wo de ming zi shi Sheldon. (Copies hand movements.)

Howard: What’s this? (Repeats hand movements.)
Sheldon: That’s what you did. I assumed as in a number of languages that the gesture was part of the phrase.

Howard: Well it’s not.
Sheldon: How am I supposed to know that? As the teacher it’s your obligation to separate your personal idiosyncrasies from the subject matter. 

Howard: You know, I’m really glad you decided to learn Mandarin.
Sheldon: Why?

Leonard (entering): Hey! 
Sheldon: Mai du lui tsa.

Howard: You just called Leonard a syphilitic donkey. 
Sheldon: My apologies Leonard, I’m only as good as my teacher. 

Leonard: Why are you learning Chinese?
Sheldon: I believe the Szechuan Palace has been passing off orange chicken as tangerine chicken and I intend to confront them. 

Penny: Oh, I’ll tell you what’s going on, that stupid self-centred bastard wrote about our sex life in his blog. (Out of window) Drop dead, you stupid self-centred bastard! (To Leonard) Thank you. (exit)
Sheldon: Okay, where were we? 

Leonard: Okay, feel better, bye. (Goes back to apartment) She doesn’t want to talk. 
Sheldon: Not surprising. Penny’s emotional responses originate from the primitive portion of the brain known as the Amygdala, while speech is centred in the much more recently developed Neocortex. The former can easily overpower the latter giving scientific credence to the notion of being rendered speechless. (Leonard stares at him.) Or maybe she just doesn’t want to talk. 

Leonard: I’m not going to do that, Howard.
Sheldon: I’m not aware of any social convention that requires you to intervene at all.

Leonard: What about “damsel in distress?”
Sheldon: Twelfth century code of chivalry, not exactly current. You’d also have to be knighted for that to apply. 

Scene: The apartment. The guys are playing a board game and eating Chinese food.
Sheldon: Howard, I’m going to need another Mandarin lesson. I obviously didn’t make my point with those people. 

Howard: For God’s sake, Sheldon, if you don’t like the tangerine chicken, don’t order the tangerine chicken.
Sheldon: I like tangerine chicken, I’m not getting tangerine chicken.

Howard: Boy, that story gets better every time you hear it. 
Sheldon: Actually, I thought the first two renditions were far more compelling. Previously I felt sympathy for the Leonard character, now I just find him to be whiny and annoying. 

Leonard: Just eat your tangerine chicken. 
Sheldon: I’d love to, but I don’t have tangerine chicken. 

Scene: The lobby. Sheldon is listening to an iPod.
Sheldon: Show me your citrus peels. Gei wo kan, ni jud di zi pei. Show me your citrus peels. Gei wo kan, ni jud di zi pei. Show me your…

Penny: I’m sorry. Look, do you have a second.
Sheldon: A second what? Pair of underwear? 

Penny: I was just wondering if I could talk to you? It’s about Leonard.
Sheldon: Why me? Why not Koothrappali or Wolowitz?

Penny: Well, Raj can’t talk to me unless he’s drunk, and Wolowitz is, you know, disgusting. 
Sheldon: Yes, I suppose he is. 

Penny: All I’m saying is, you know Leonard the best. 
Sheldon: Not necessarily. I’m often surprised by my lack of familiarity with Leonard. Just the other day I discovered, he not only has a loofah, he hides it. Why do you suppose a man would be ashamed of having a loofah? I myself prefer to have my excess epithelial cells slough off naturally, but I don’t condemn those who seek to accelerate the process.  (Time shift) And until recently I had no idea that despite his lactose intolerance, he can tolerate small amounts of non-fat ice cream without producing a noxious gas that I maintain in the right concentration could be weaponised. (Begins to unlock apartment door.)

Penny: Leonard might come home, can we talk in my apartment. 
Sheldon: We’re not done? 

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Ach, why not? We’re already through the looking glass anyway. 

Penny: Okay, so, here’s the thing. I guess you’re aware that Leonard asked me out. 
Sheldon: Well, he didn’t actually say anything, but when he came back to the apartment he was doing a dance that brought to mind the happy hippos in Fantasia. 

Penny: Oh, that’s nice. Anyhow, the thing I wanted to talk to you about is, you know, since Leonard and I have become friends, I was just… want to sit down? 
Sheldon: Oh, I wish it were that simple. You see, I don’t spend much time here and so I’ve never really chosen a place to sit. 

Penny: Well, choose.
Sheldon: There are a number of options and, I’m really not familiar enough with the cushion densities, air flow patterns and dispersion of sunlight to make an informed choice.

Penny: Alright, why don’t you just pick one at random, and then if you don’t like it you can sit somewhere else next time. 
Sheldon: No, no, that’s crazy. You go ahead and talk while I figure it out. 

Penny: Okay. Um, here’s the thing. So, I’ve known for a while now that Leonard has had a little crush on me…
Sheldon: A little crush? Well I suppose so, in the same way Menelaus had a little crush on Helen of Troy. 

Penny: Alright, yeah, I don’t really know who they are…
Sheldon: Well Menelaus was the brother of Agamemnon…

Penny: Yeah, I don’t care, I don’t care. The point is Leonard isn’t the kind of guy I usually go out with.
Sheldon: Leonard isn’t the kind of guy anyone usually goes out with. Would you be open to rotating the couch clockwise thirty degrees? 

Penny: No. What I’m saying is, Leonard might be different in a good way. Obviously my usual choices have not worked out so well. 
Sheldon: The last one worked out well for Koothrappali. He got a free iPod. Oh, glare! 

Penny: But on the other hand, if things don’t go well with Leonard, I risk losing a really good friend. I mean, I guess he’s not looking for a fling, he’s the kind of guy that gets into a relationship for, I don’t know, like you would say light years. 
Sheldon: I would not say that. No-one would say that, a light year is a unit of distance, not time. 

Penny: Thank you for the clarification. 
Sheldon: Draft. You see people hear the word year and they think duration. Foot pound has the same problem, that’s a unit of work, not of weight.

Penny: Right, thanks.
Sheldon: It’s a common mistake.

Penny: Not the first one I’ve made today. 
Sheldon: Okay. I think this will be my seat. 

Penny: Sheldon, do you have anything to say that has anything to do with, you know, what I’m talking about. 
Sheldon: Well, let’s see. We might consider Schrodinger’s Cat. 

Penny: Schrodinger? Is that the woman in 2A?
Sheldon: No. That’s Mrs Grossinger. And she doesn’t have a cat, she has a Mexican hairless, annoying little animal, yip yip yip yip…

Penny: Sheldon! 
Sheldon: Sorry, you diverted me. Anyway, in 1935, Erwin Schrodinger, in an attempt to explain the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum physics, he proposed an experiment where a cat is placed in a box with a sealed vial of poison that will break open at a random time. Now, since no-one knows when or if the poison has been released, until the box is opened, the cat can be thought of as both alive and dead. 

Penny: I’m sorry, I don’t get the point. 
Sheldon: Well of course you don’t get it, I haven’t made it yet. You’d have to be psychic to get it, and there’s no such thing as psychic.

Penny: Sheldon, what’s the point? 
Sheldon: Just like Schrodinger’s Cat, your potential relationship with Leonard right now can be thought of as both good and bad. It is only by opening the box that you’ll find out which it is. 

Penny: Okay, so you’re saying I should go out with Leonard. 
Sheldon: No, no, no, no, no, no. Let me start again. In 1935, Erwin Schrodinger…

Leonard: Sheldon, I think I’ve made a mistake. 
Sheldon: I can see that. Unless you’re planning on running a marathon, choosing both stuffing and mashed potatoes is a starch filled redundancy.

Leonard: No, it’s about Penny.
Sheldon: A mistake involving Penny? Okay, you’ll have to narrow it down. 

Leonard: I don’t think I can go out with her tonight. 
Sheldon: Then don’t.

Leonard: Other people would say “why not?” 
Sheldon: Other people might be interested. 

Leonard: I’m going to talk anyway.
Sheldon: I assumed you would. 

Leonard: Now that I’m actually about to go out with Penny, I’m not excited, I’m nauseous. 
Sheldon: Ah, then your meal choice is appropriate. Starch absorbs fluid which reduces the amount of vomit available for violent expulsion. 

Leonard: Right.
Sheldon: You also made a common grammatical mistake, you said nauseous when you meant nauseated. But go on. 

Leonard: Sheldon, this date is probably my one chance with Penny, what happens if I blow it. 
Sheldon: Well, if we accept your premise, and also accept the highly improbable assumption that Penny is the only woman in the world for you then we can logically conclude that the result of blowing it would be that you end up a lonely, bitter old man with no progeny. The image of any number of evil lighthouse keepers from Scooby Doo cartoons comes to mind. 

Leonard: You’re not helping. 
Sheldon: Alright, what response on my part would bring this conversation to a speedy conclusion?

Leonard: Tell me whether or not to go through with the date.
Sheldon: Schrodinger’s Cat.

Leonard: Wow, that’s brilliant.
Sheldon: You sound surprised. Mmm, hou zi shui zai li du. (Your monkey sleeps inside me.) 









Leonard: I think we have to acknowledge, those were some fairly savage pre-adolescent Jews. 
Sheldon: You know, we were annihilated by our own incompetence and the inability of some people to follow the chain of command. 

Leonard: Sheldon, let it go.
Sheldon: No, I want to talk about the fact that Wolowitz shot me in the back. 

Howard: I shot you for good reason, you were leading us into disaster. 
Sheldon: I was giving clear, concise orders. 

Penny: So, how was paintball, did you have fun?
Sheldon: Sure, if you consider being fragged by your own troops fun. (To Howard) You clear space on your calendar, there will be an enquiry.

Penny: Well, there will be boys, and there will be girls, and it is a party. So, it’ll just be a bunch of my friends, we’ll have some beer, do a little dancing…
Sheldon: Dancing?

Leonard: Yeah, I don’t know, Penny…
Sheldon: The thing is, we’re not….

Leonard: We’re really more….
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Are you sure? Come on, it’s Halloween.
Sheldon: A Halloween party?

Penny: Um, yeah, Halloween.
Sheldon: Yes, but are the costumes random, or genre specific? 

Penny: Sure.
Sheldon: What about comic-books?

Penny: Fine.
Sheldon: Anime?

Penny: Of course.
Sheldon: TV , film, D&D, Manga, Greek Gods, Roman Gods, Norse Gods…

Leonard: Oh, no. 
Sheldon: Oh no! (He is also wearing a Flash costume.)

Raj: Make way for the fastest man alive. (Enters, also in a Flash costume.) Oh no!
Sheldon: See, this is why I wanted to have a costume meeting. 

Leonard: Hey, Sheldon, there’s something I want to talk to you about before we go to the party.
Sheldon: I don’t care if anybody gets it, I’m going as the Doppler Effect. 

Leonard: No, it’s not…
Sheldon: If I have to, I can demonstrate. Neeeeoooowwwww!

Leonard: Terrific. Um, this party is my first chance for Penny to see me in the context of her social group, and I need you not to embarrass me tonight. 
Sheldon: Well, what exactly do you mean by embarrass you?

Leonard: For example, tonight no-one needs to know that my middle name is Leakey. 
Sheldon: Well, there’s nothing embarrassing about that, your father worked with Lewis Leakey, a great anthropologist. It had nothing to do with your bed-wetting. 

Penny: Late? It’s 7:05.
Sheldon: And you said the party starts at seven. 

Penny: Well, yeah, when you start a party at seven, no-one shows up at, you know, seven. 
Sheldon: It’s 7:05. 

Penny: Probably, but in their own homes. 
Sheldon: So what time does the costume parade start? 

Penny: The parade?
Sheldon: Yeah, so the judges can give out the prizes for best costume, you know, most frightening, most authentic, most accurate visual representation of a scientific principle.

Penny: Oh, Sheldon, I’m sorry but there aren’t going to be any parades or judges or prizes. 
Sheldon: This party is just going to suck. 

Leonard: Oh, he’s the Doppler Effect.
Sheldon: Yes. It’s the apparent change in the frequency of a wave caused by relative motion between the source of the wave and the observer. 

Leonard: Okay. 
Sheldon: See, people get it. 

Howard: No thanks, peanuts, I can’t afford to swell up in these tights. 
Sheldon: I’m confused. If there’s no costume parade, what are we doing here? 

Leonard: We’re socialising. Meeting new people. 
Sheldon: Telepathically?

Leonard: She’s not Catwoman, she’s just a generic cat.
Sheldon: And that’s the kind of sloppy costuming which results from a lack of rules and competition.

Leonard: I  want to get to know Penny’s friends, I just, I don’t know how to talk to these people. 
Sheldon: Well, I actually might be able to help.

Leonard: How so?
Sheldon: Like Jane Goodall observing the apes, I initially saw their interactions as confusing and unstructured, but patterns emerge, they have their own language if you will. 

Leonard: Go on.
Sheldon: Well, it seems that the newcomer approaches the existing group with the greeting “How wasted am I?” which is met with an approving chorus of “Dude.”

Leonard: Then what happens?
Sheldon: That’s as far as I’ve gotten.

Leonard: This is ridiculous, I’m jumping in.
Sheldon: Good luck. 

Leonard: No, you’re coming with me.
Sheldon: Oh, I hardly think so. 

Leonard: Come on.
Sheldon: Aren’t you afraid I’ll embarrass you?

Leonard: Yes. But I need a wing-man.
Sheldon: Alright, but if we’re going to use flight metaphors I’m much more suited to being the guy from the FAA, analysing wreckage. 

Leonard: Hi.
Sheldon: Hello.

Girl: So, what are you supposed to be?
Sheldon: Me? I’ll give you a hint. Neeeeooooowwwww!

Girl: Uh, a choo-choo train?
Sheldon: Close! Neeeeeoooooowwwww!

Time shift. Sheldon and Leonard are now talking to a girl in a princess costume.
Sheldon: Neeeeeooooowwwwww!

Girl: I still don’t get it.
Sheldon: I’m the Doppler Effect. 

Leonard: Because I’m Frodo.
Sheldon: Yes, well, I’m the Doppler Effect. 

Leonard: Oh no.
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: That’s Penny’s ex-boyfriend.
Sheldon: What do you suppose he’s doing here? Besides disrupting the local gravity field. 

Leonard: If he were any bigger, he’d have moons orbiting him.
Sheldon: Oh, snap. So I guess we’ll be leaving now. 

Leonard: Why should we leave? For all we know, he crashed the party and Penny doesn’t even want him here. (Penny and Kurt hug).
Sheldon: You have a back-up hypothesis. 

Leonard: Maybe they just want to be friends. 
Sheldon: Or maybe she wants to be friends, and he wants something more. 

Leonard: Then he and I are on equal ground.
Sheldon: Yes, but you’re much closer to it than he is. 

Leonard: Look, if this was 15,000 years ago, by virtue of his size and strength, Kurt would be entitled to his choice of female partners.
Sheldon: And male partners. Animal partners. Large primordial eggplants, pretty much whatever tickled his fancy. 

Leonard: Yes, but our society has undergone a paradigm shift, in the information age, Sheldon, you and I are the alpha males. We shouldn’t have to back down. 
Sheldon: True. Why don’t you text him that and see if he backs down?

Leonard: No. I’m going to assert my dominance face to face. 
Sheldon: Face to face? Are you going to wait for him to sit down, or are you going to stand on a coffee table?

Penny: Oh, hey guys. You having a good time?
Sheldon: Given the reaction to my costume, this party is a scathing indictment of the American education system. 

Kurt: What, you’re a zebra, right?
Sheldon: Yet another child left behind. 

Kurt: So why the hell would you want to be a Hobbit?
Sheldon: Because he is neither tall nor immortal, and none of us could be The Flash. 

Leonard: I think we’re all talking to Penny here.
Sheldon: I’m not. No offence. 

Leonard: No, I said animalistic. Of course we’re all animals, but some of us have climbed a little higher on the evolutionary tree. 
Sheldon: If he understands that, you’re in trouble. 

Kurt: So what, I’m unevolved?
Sheldon: You’re in trouble. 

Kurt: Yeah, how about I make a point out of your pointy little head.
Sheldon: Let me remind you, while my moral support is absolute, in a physical confrontation I will be less than useless. 

Kurt: Fine. You’re one lucky little leprechaun. 
Sheldon: He’s a Hobbit! I’ve got your back. 

Penny: Oh, okay, alright, well thank you for coming. 
Sheldon: Happy Halloween. (They leave) If it’s any consolation, I thought that homo-habilus line really put him in his place. 

Leonard: What’s that?
Sheldon: Tea. When people are upset the cultural convention is to bring them hot beverages. There there. You want to talk about it?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Good. There there was really all I had. 

Leonard: Good night Sheldon.
Sheldon: Good night Leonard. 

Scene: The apartment, there is a knock on the door. 
Sheldon: Coming. (Opens door to Howard.)

Howard: Hey, have you seen Koothrapali?
Sheldon: He’s not here. Maybe the Avenger summoned him. 

Howard: He’s not the Marvel comic story, he’s the original Norse God. 
Sheldon: Thank you for the clarification. 

Howard: I’m supposed to give him a ride home.
Sheldon: Well I’m sure he’ll be fine. He has his hammer. 

Raj: Oh, that’s very impressive. And a little racist. 
Sheldon: If we’re all through playing mock the flawed technology, can we get on with Halo night, we were supposed to start at eight, it is now 8:06.

Leonard: So? We’ll start now.
Sheldon: Yes, first we have to decide if those lost six minutes will be coming out of game time, bathroom time or the pizza break.

Howard: If we’re having anchovies on the pizza we can’t take it out of bathroom time. (There is a knock on the door.)
Sheldon: Oh, what fresh hell is this?

Penny: Well, there’s this girl I know from back in Nebraska, Christie, well anyway she called me up and she’s like “Hey, how’s California,” and I’m like “Awesome” ‘cos, you know, it’s not Nebraska, and the next thing I know she’s invited herself out here to stay with me. 
Sheldon: 8:08.

Penny: Well, she was engaged to my cousin while she was sleeping with my brother, so she’s kind of family. 
Sheldon: You know, I apologise for my earlier outburst, who needs Halo when we can be regaled with the delightfully folksy tale of the whore of Omaha?

Howard (voice off): Bonjour mademoiselle, I understand you’re new in town. 
Sheldon: Oh good grief.

Penny: Ugh, I cannot believe Christie let Howard into my apartment.    
Sheldon: And I cannot believe people pay for horoscopes, but on a more serious note it’s 8:13 and we’re still not playing Halo. 

Leonard: Okay, fine, we’ll just play one on one until he gets back. 
Sheldon: One on one? We don’t play one on one, we play teams, not one on one. One on one!

Leonard: Great idea.
Sheldon: Uh, no. The wheel was a great idea. Relativity was a great idea. This is a notion, and a rather sucky one at that. 

Penny: Why?
Sheldon: Why? Oh, Penny, Penny, Penny.

Penny: Oh, what, what, what? 
Sheldon: This is a complex battle simulation with a steep learning curve, there are myriad weapons, vehicles and strategies to master, not to mention an extremely intricate back-story.

Penny (picking up a controller, there is the sound of an explosion from the television): Oh cool, whose head did I just blow off? 
Sheldon: Mine. 

Leonard: It’s the only way we can play teams. 
Sheldon: Yes, but whoever’s her partner will be hamstrung by her lack of experience and not to mention that fact that sh…. (another explosion)

Penny: Ha-ha, there goes your head again.
Sheldon: Okay, this isn’t at all good sportsmanship to shoot somebody who’s just respawned, you need to give them a chance to (explosion) now come on!

Time shift
Sheldon: Raj, Raj, she’s got me cornered, cover me.

Penny: Yeah, so is Sheldon. 
Sheldon: Okay, that’s it, I don’t know how, but she is cheating. No-one can be that attractive and be this skilled at a video game. 

Penny: Wait, wait, Sheldon, come back, you forgot something. 
Sheldon: What?

Penny: This plasma grenade. (Explosion.) Ha! Look, it’s raining you! 
Sheldon: You laugh now, you just wait until you need tech support. 

Leonard: She’s an enigma, Raj. 
Sheldon: And another thing, there’s a certain ethic to the game, Penny, a well estab…

Leonard: She’s gone, Sheldon. 
Sheldon: Well she could have said goodbye. 

Penny (entering again): Okay, I have a problem.
Sheldon: It’s called carpal tunnel syndrome, and quite frankly you deserve it. 

Penny: Uh, the couch is good.
Sheldon: Hold that thought, Leonard, a moment.

Leonard: Let me guess, you have a problem with this.
Sheldon: Where do I begin? 

Leonard: It’s up to you, crazy person’s choice. 
Sheldon: Well first, we don’t have house guests, frankly if I could afford the rent I’d ask you to leave. 

Leonard: Your friendship means a lot to me as well, what else? 
Sheldon: Well, our earthquake supplies, we have a two day, two man kit.

Leonard: So? 
Sheldon: So, if there is an earthquake and the three of us are trapped here, we could be out of food by tomorrow afternoon. 

Leonard: I’m sorry, are you suggesting that if we let Penny stay we might succumb to cannibalism?
Sheldon: No-one ever thinks it will happen until it does. 

Penny: Hu.. what?
Sheldon: He’s engaging in reductio-ad-absurdum. It’s the logical fallacy of extending someone’s argument to ridiculous proportions and then criticising the result, and I do not appreciate it. 

Leonard: I’ll get you a blanket and a pillow. 
Sheldon: Okay, well since I’m obviously being ignored here, let’s go over the morning schedule, I use the bathroom from 7 to 7:20, plan your ablutions and bodily functions accordingly. 

Penny: How am I supposed to plan my bodily functions?
Sheldon: I suggest no liquids after 11pm. 

Penny: Thanks Leonard. (Arranges pillows on left of couch.)
Sheldon: Hmmph, wrong. 

Penny: I’m listening.
Sheldon: Your head goes on the other end.

Penny: Why? 
Sheldon: It’s culturally universal, a bed, even a temporary bed, is always oriented with the headboard away from the door. It serves the ancient imperative of protecting oneself against marauders.

Penny: I’ll risk it.
Sheldon: Hm! 

Penny: Anything else I should know.
Sheldon: Yes. If you use my toothbrush I’ll jump out that window. Please don’t come to my funeral. Have a good night. 

Leonard: What are you doing? 
Sheldon: Every Saturday since we have lived in this apartment, I have awakened at 6:15, poured myself a bowl of cereal, added a quarter cup of 2% milk, sat on this end of this couch, turned on BBC America and watched Doctor Who. 

Leonard: Penny’s still sleeping.
Sheldon: Every Saturday since we have lived in this apartment, I have awakened at 6:15, poured myself a bowl of cereal….

Leonard: I know, I know, look, you have a TV in your room, why don’t you just have breakfast in bed? 
Sheldon: Because I am neither an invalid nor a woman celebrating Mother’s Day. 

Penny: What the hell is your problem?
Sheldon: Okay, this cereal has lost all its molecular integrity, I now have a bowl of shredded wheat paste.

Howard: chka-chka-chka-chka-chka-chka-chka (they kiss).
Sheldon: Well there’s one beloved children’s book I’ll never read again.

Leonard: Leonard. 
Sheldon: I’m Sheldon.

Leonard: Penny, you’re always welcome to stay with us.
Sheldon: Oh, terrific, now we’re running a cute little B&B.

Howard: I do not, my mother lives with me. 
Sheldon: Well then, it’s all settled, Christie will stay with Howard, Penny can go back to her apartment, and I’ll watch the last 24 minutes of Doctor Who, although at this point it’s more like Doctor Why Bother. 

Leonard: Sheldon you just can’t dictate…
Sheldon: No more talking, everybody go. 

Christie: Oh, that’s so cool. My first Jew!
Sheldon: I imagine there aren’t many kosher corn-huskers. 

Scene: A Chinese restaurant. 
Sheldon: I’m sorry, we cannot do this without Wolowitz.

Leonard: We can’t order Chinese food without Wolowitz?
Sheldon: Let me walk you through it, our standard is, the steamed dumpling appetizer, General So’s chicken, beef with broccoli, shrimp with lobster sauce and vegetable lo-main. Do you see the problem?

Leonard: I see a problem. 
Sheldon: Our entire order is predicated on four dumplings and four entrees divided among four people. 

Leonard: So, we’ll just order three entrees.
Sheldon: Fine, what do you want to eliminate, and who gets the extra dumpling. 

Raj: We could cut it into thirds. 
Sheldon: Then it is no longer a dumpling, once you cut it open it is at best a very small open faced sandwich. 

Waiter: Hi fellas. Oh, where’s your annoying little friend who thinks he speaks Mandarin?
Sheldon: He’s putting his needs ahead of the collective good. (Pointing at waiter) Where he comes from, that’s punishable by death.

Raj: That works. 
Sheldon: No, if we fill up on dumplings we’ll need to eliminate another entree. 

Leonard: If we have extra, we’ll just take the leftovers home.
Sheldon: And divide it how, I’m telling you we cannot do this without Wolowitz. 

Leonard: Wolowitz is with his new girlfriend, if you had let me invite Penny then you would have had your fourth.
Sheldon: Have you seen Penny eat Chinese food, she uses a fork, and she double dips her egg rolls. 

Leonard: We don’t order egg rolls.
Sheldon: Exactly, but we’d have to if she was here.

Leonard: Here’s an idea, why don’t we just go out for Indian food.
Sheldon: No.

Waiter: You are nice boys. Tell you what I’m going to do. I’m going to bring you the four dumplings. When I’m walking over to the table, maybe I get bumped, one of the dumplings falls to the floor, no-one has to know. 
Sheldon: I’ll know. 

Leonard: Yeah, we can always divide soup.
Sheldon: What about the won-tons?

Penny (answering): Oh, hey guys, what’s up?
Sheldon: It’s Halo night.

Leonard: Right, anyway, uh, with Wolowitz occupied elsewhere, we had something we wanted to ask you. Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes. Penny, we would very much appreciate it if you would be the fourth member of our Halo team. I don’t think I need to tell you what an honour this is. 

Penny: Oh, that’s so sweet. But I’m going out dancing with a girlfriend. 
Sheldon: You can’t go out, it’s Halo night. 

Penny: Well, for Penny it’s dancing night. 
Sheldon: You go dancing every Wednesday.

Penny: No.
Sheldon:  Then it’s not dancing night. 

Penny: Look, why don’t I play with you guys tomorrow?
Sheldon: Tonight is Halo night, it’s like talking to a wall. 

Leonard: Sheldon, remember, we role-played this.
Sheldon: Yes, but you didn’t portray her as completely irrational.

Leonard: Maybe we should have asked if we could go dancing with her and her girlfriend. 
Sheldon: Okay, assuming we could dance, which we can’t, there are three of us and two of them.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: It’s the Chinese restaurant all over again. I assure you that cutting a dumpling in thirds is child’s play compared with three men, each attempting to dance with 67% of a woman.

Leonard: Aaah, for God’s sake, Sheldon, you are driving me crazy. 
Sheldon: Your anger’s not with me, sir, but with basic mathematics.

Leonard: Who are you calling?
Sheldon: The only man who can restore any semblance of balance to our universe.

Leonard: Sheldon, think this through, you’re going to ask Howard to choose between sex and Halo.
Sheldon: No, I’m going to ask him to choose between sex and Halo 3. As far as I know, sex has not been upgraded to include high-def graphics and enhanced weapon systems. 

Leonard: You’re right, all sex has is nudity, orgasms and human contact. 
Sheldon: My point.

Howard: What are you guys doing here? 
Sheldon: It’s Halo night. 

Raj: I thought she was the whore of Omaha?
Sheldon: Shhh! 

Howard: Sheldon, you got him in your sights, fire, he’s charging his plasma rifle. 
Sheldon: I can’t shoot now, I’m cloaking.

Raj: I can’t see him.
Sheldon: That’s why the call it cloaking, dead man.

Leonard: That will do, Raj, straight for the tank.
Sheldon: We said no tanks.

Raj: All I’ve got is a needler, and I’m all out of ammo. 
Sheldon: And now you’re out of life. Why did you hit pause?

Scene: The Apartment.
Sheldon: Damn you, walletnook.com.

Leonard: Problem?
Sheldon: The online description was completely misleading, they said eight slots plus removable ID, to any rational person that would mean room for nine cards, but they don’t tell you the removable ID takes up one slot, it’s a nightmare. 

Leonard: Okay, now, do you really need the honorary Justice League of America membership card?
Sheldon: It’s been in every wallet I’ve owned since I was five. 

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: It says keep this on your person at all times. (Knock on door) It’s right here under Batman’s signature.

Raj: And over here is Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hi.

Raj: If you don’t want to meddle, then why are you meddling.
Sheldon: If I may, your parents probably don’t consider this meddling, while arranged marriages are no longer the norm, Indian parents continue to have a greater than average involvement in their children’s lives.

Raj: Why are you telling me about my own culture? 
Sheldon: You seemed confused.

Leonard: Actually, I read somewhere that it’s one of the most popular programmes in India. 
Sheldon: It might speak to a cultural aspiration to have one’s children enter the medical profession. 

Howard: I bet they love Scrubs.
Sheldon: What’s not to love?

Raj: Excuse me, hello? My parents are trying to marry me off to a total stranger, what am I going to do?
Sheldon: I suggest you go through with it.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: Romantic love as the basis for marriage has only existed since the nineteenth century. Up until then, arranged marriages were the norm, and it served society quite well.

Howard: Me too. Of course, it speaks to me culturally. 
Sheldon: Understandable, but there’s a universality to that story which transcends ethnicity.

Howard: So who wants to rent Fiddler?
Sheldon: No need, we have the special edition. 

Penny: I need some guinea pigs.
Sheldon: Okay, there’s a lab animal supply company in Reseda you could try, but if your research is going to have human applications may I suggest white mice instead, their brain chemistry is far closer to ours. 

Leonard: Oh, great, well the key to acquiring proficiency in any task is repetition.
Sheldon: With certain obvious exceptions. Suicide, for example. 

Penny: Uh, how about a grasshopper. I make a mean grasshopper. Okay? Good. Coming up. Sheldon, what are you going to have?
Sheldon: I’ll have a diet coke.

Penny: Okay, can you please order a cocktail, I need to practice mixing drinks.
Sheldon: Fine. I’ll have a virgin cuba libre. 

Penny: That’s, um, rum and coke without the rum.
Sheldon: Yes, 

Penny: So coke.
Sheldon: Yes. And would you make it diet? 

Penny: There’s a can in the fridge. 
Sheldon: A cuba libre traditionally comes in a tall glass with a lime wedge.

Penny: Then swim to Cuba.
Sheldon: Bartenders are supposed to have people skills. 

Penny: Um, Raj, honey, you say you can’t talk to women but… you’ve been talking to me.
Sheldon: And now we’ll never know. 

Howard: I’d say he was doing fine, look at her, last girl my mom set me up with had a moustache and a vestigial tail. 
Sheldon: Sorry I’m late.

Leonard: What happened?
Sheldon: Nothing, I just really didn’t want to come. Virgin diet cuba libre please.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: In a tall glass, with a lime wedge.

Penny: Oh, I’ll wedge it right in there. 
Sheldon: So, how’s Koothrappali d…. oh my Lord.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: That’s Princess Punchali. 

Leonard: I’m pretty sure her name’s Lalita.
Sheldon: No, no, Princess Punchali from The Monkey and the Princess. 

Howard: Oh, yeah, I tried to watch that online, but they wanted a credit card. 
Sheldon: It’s a children’s story.

Howard: Oh, no it isn’t. 
Sheldon: When I was a little boy and got sick, which was most of the time, my mother would read it to me. It’s about an Indian princess who befriends a monkey, who was mocked by all the other monkeys because he was different. For some reason I related to it quite strongly. 

Leonard: We all know the reason. Sheldon, what are you getting at?
Sheldon: That woman looks exactly like the pictures of Princess Punchali in the book. How often does one see a beloved fictional character come to life?

Raj: Hey guys. This is Lalita Gupta, Lalita this is Leonard and Sheldon and Howard and Penny. Isn’t it great, she isn’t fat any more! 
Sheldon: Forgive me your highness, for I am but a monkey, and it is in my nature to climb. I did not mean to gaze upon you as you comb your hair.

Lalita: I’m sorry? 
Sheldon: You are the living embodiment of the beautiful Princess Punchali. 

Lalita: Oh, no kidding? Oh, who is that?
Sheldon: A beloved character from an Indian folk tale. 

Lalita: Oh. Us Indian, or “come to our casino” Indian?
Sheldon: You Indian.

Lalita: Oh. 
Sheldon: The resemblance is remarkable. I can practically smell the lotus blossoms woven into your ebony hair. 

Lalita: Thanks. I imagine you smell very nice too. 
Sheldon: I shower twice a day and wash my hands as often as I can. 

Lalita: Don’t be insulting Rajesh. So, Sheldon, tell me more about this princess you say I look like. 
Sheldon: It was said that the Gods fashioned her eyes out of the stars, and that roses were ashamed to bloom in the presence of her ruby lips. 

Raj: Back off Sheldon. 
Sheldon: What?

Raj: If you do not stop hitting on my lady you will feel the full extent of my wrath.
Sheldon: I’m not hitting on her.

Lalita: Okay, let’s get something straight here. The only reason I came tonight was to get my parents off my case, I certainly don’t need to be getting this old world crap from you.
Sheldon: Exactly the kind of spirit with which Princess Punchali led the monkeys to freedom. 

Raj: But you’re not Princess Punchali.
Sheldon: Luckily for you, she could have you beheaded.

Lalita: Sheldon, are you hungry?
Sheldon: I could eat. 

Raj: Go ahead, tell my parents why they won’t have any grandchildren.
Sheldon: How would I know, do you have a low sperm count?

Raj: Can we please stop talking about my testicles? Sheldon, tell them what you did.
Sheldon: What did I do? 

Leonard: You left with his date. Friends don’t do that to each other. 
Sheldon: Oh. Alright, noted. Sorry.

Leonard: Take it, Raj. It’s more than I’ve ever gotten. 
Sheldon: And may I point out she wouldn’t have asked me to go with her if you hadn’t been drunk and boring. 

Dr Koothrappali: Drunk?
Sheldon: And boring, her words. 

Raj: Please wait until I get into the hall. 
Sheldon: Okay, well, good night.

Leonard: Hold on. What happened with you and Lalita?
Sheldon: We ate. She lectured me on the link between gum disease and heart attacks, nothing I didn’t already know, and I came home. 

Leonard: So you’re not going to see her again?
Sheldon: Why would I see her again? I already have a dentist. (Exits)

Howard: Gentlemen, I am now about to send a signal from this laptop through our local ISP, racing down fibre-optic cable at the speed of light to San Francisco, bouncing off a satellite in geosynchronous orbit to Lisbon, Portugal, where the data packets will be handed off to submerged transatlantic cables terminating in Halifax, Nova-Scotia, and transferred across the continent via microwave relays back to our ISP and the X10 receiver attached to this (clicks mouse, lamp switches on) lamp. (The others cheer and clap). 
Sheldon: Look at me, look at me, I’ve got goosebumps. 

Penny: Yeah, you turned your stereo down with your laptop. 
Sheldon: No, we turned our stereo down by sending a signal around the world via the internet. 

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Someone in Sezchuan province, China is using his computer to turn our lights on and off. 

All together: Because we can. (There is a loud noise)
Sheldon: They found the remote controlled cars.

Howard: The monster truck is out of Austin, Texas, and the blue Viper is being operated from suburban Tel Aviv. 
Sheldon: You may want to put on slacks. 

Scene: The same, clearing up.
Sheldon: You know, in the future, when we’re disembodied brains in jars, we’re going to look back on this as eight hours well wasted. 

Raj: I suppose you could have your android penis circumcised. But that’s something your Rabbi would have to discuss with the manufacturers. 
Sheldon: Not to mention you’d have to power down on Saturdays. 

Leonard: Sheldon, why is this letter in the trash? 
Sheldon: Well, there’s always the possibility that a trash can spontaneously formed around the letter, but Occam’s Razor would suggest that someone threw it out. 

Leonard: It’s from the Institute for Experimental Physics. They want us to present our paper on the properties of super solids at the topical conference on Bowes-Einstein condensates. 
Sheldon: I know. I read it before I threw it out. 

Leonard: Okay… if I may drill down to the bedrock of my question, why did you throw it out.
Sheldon: Because I have no interest in standing in the Rose Room of the Pasadena Marriott in front of a group of judgemental strangers, who wouldn’t recognise true genius if it were standing in front of them giving a speech. Which, if I were there, it would be. 

Leonard: Are there any other honours I’ve gotten that I don’t know about? Did UPS drop off a Nobel Prize with my name on it?
Sheldon: Leonard, please don’t take this the wrong way, but the day you win a Nobel Prize, is the day I begin my research on the drag co-efficient of tassles on flying carpets. 

Leonard: Shut up, Howard. Sheldon, we have to do this.
Sheldon: No we don’t. We have to take in nourishment, expel waste, and inhale enough oxygen to keep ourselves from dying, everything else is optional. 

Leonard: Okay, let me put it this way, I’m doing it.
Sheldon: You can’t. I’m the lead author. 

Leonard: Oh, come on. The only reason you’re the lead author is because we went alphabetically. 
Sheldon: I let you think we went alphabetically to spare you the humiliation of dealing with the fact that it was my idea. Not to put too fine a point on it, but I was throwing you a bone. You’re welcome. 

Leonard: Excuse me, I designed the experiment that proved the hypothesis. 
Sheldon: It doesn’t need proving. 

Leonard: So the entire scientific community is just supposed to take your word?
Sheldon: They’re not supposed to, but they should. 

Leonard: Alright, I don’t care what you say, I’m going to the conference and I’m presenting our findings. 
Sheldon: And I forbid it. 

Leonard: You forbid it?
Sheldon: If I’m not taking credit for our work then nobody is. 

Leonard: Oh, you admit that it’s our work.
Sheldon: No, once again, I’m throwing you a bone. And once again, you are welcome. 

Penny: Get anything good? 
Sheldon: Uh, just the latest copy of Applied Particle Physics Quarterly.

Penny: Oh, you know, that is so weird that yours came and mine didn’t. (Sheldon looks confused). It was a joke. (Sheldon gives a fake laugh.) Yup, tip your waitresses, I’m here all week. 
Sheldon: Penny, just to save you from further awkwardness know that I’m perfectly comfortable with the two of us climbing the stairs in silence. 

Penny: Oh yeah, me too. Zip it, lock it. (The begin to climb) Put it in your pocket. So you and Leonard…
Sheldon: Oh dear God! 

Penny: Little misunderstanding, huh. 
Sheldon: A little misunder…. Galileo and the Pope had a little misunderstanding.

Penny: Anyway, I was talking to Leonard this morning and I think he feels really bad about it. 
Sheldon: Huh.

Penny: Well how do you feel?
Sheldon: I don’t understand the question.

Penny: Well I’m just asking if it’s difficult to be fighting with your best friend. 
Sheldon: Oh. I hadn’t thought about it like that. I wonder if I’ve been experiencing physiological manifestations of some sort of unconscious emotional turmoil. 

Penny: Wait… what? 
Sheldon: I couldn’t poop this morning. 

Penny: You should just talk to him, I’m sure you guys can work this out. 
Sheldon: It’s certainly preferable to my plan.

Penny: Which was? 
Sheldon: A powerful laxative. 

Penny: Okay, so you absolutely should talk to him, look, I know Leonard values you as a friend, and he told me himself that without your little idea there’s no way he could have come up with this whole experiment thing.
Sheldon: Excuse me, little idea? 

Penny: Yeah, I mean he tried to explain it to me, I didn’t really understand it but…
Sheldon: Of course you didn’t, he said little idea? 

Penny: Uh, well no, no, not in… not in those words.
Sheldon: In what words then, exactly

Penny: Um, gee, the exact words aren’t written… it’s more the spirit in which it’s 
Sheldon: What did he say?

Leonard (coming out of apartment): Hey, Sheldon, I’ve been thinking, instead of arguing about this why don’t….
Sheldon: Don’t you ever speak to me again. 

Leonard: Okay, I’m leaving for the conference. 
Sheldon: Have fun presenting my lucky hunch. 

Leonard: Sheldon I didn’t mean it like that.
Sheldon: Then why did you say it.

Leonard: I don’t know, I wasn’t choosing my…
Sheldon: Were you trying to impress Penny?

Leonard: No, no not at all. A little bit. 
Sheldon: How’d that work out for you?

Penny (entering): Leonard, ready to go?
Sheldon: Libido 1, truth zero. 

Leonard: Okay, I’m going to ask you one more time, we did the work together, lets present the paper together.
Sheldon: And I’m telling you for the last time it’s pandering, it’s undignified and bite me. 

Penny: Bye Sheldon. 
Sheldon: Goodbye Penny. (Places fingers to head to try to make Leonard’s brain explode. Leonard leaves.) Oooh, one of these days, Pkshhhh!

Leonard: I didn’t skip it, it’s just an anecdote. It’s not science.
Sheldon: Oh, I see, was the apple falling on Newton’s head, was that just an anecdote?

Leonard: You are not Isaac Newton.
Sheldon: No, no that’s true, gravity would have been apparent to me without the apple. 

Leonard: You cannot possibly be that arrogant.
Sheldon: You continue to underestimate me, my good man. 

Leonard: Look, if you weren’t happy with my presentation then maybe you should have given it with me.
Sheldon: As I have explained repeatedly, unlike you, I don’t need validation from lesser minds. No offence. 

Leonard: Really, so why did you come?
Sheldon: Because I knew you’d screw this up.

Leonard: I didn’t screw it up.
Sheldon: Oh, please. I admit, that spherical chicken joke, that was hilarious. But it was straight downhill from there. 

Leonard: I’ve had enough of your condescension. Maybe I didn’t go to college when I was eleven like you, maybe I got my doctorate at 24 instead of 16, but you are not the only person who is smarter than everyone else in this room. No offense. And I am clearly not the only person who is tormented by insecurity and has an ego in need of constant validation.
Sheldon: So you admit that you’re an egotist?

Leonard: Yes. (To audience) My name is Dr Leonard Hofstadter, and I could never please my parents so I need to get all my self-esteem from strangers like you. But he’s worse.
Sheldon: Okay, that is it. (Tries to explode brain again.)

Leonard: You cannot blow up my head with your mind. 
Sheldon: Then I’ll settle for an aneurysm. 

Leonard (knocking his hands down): Stop it.
Sheldon: You hit me. You saw him, he hit me.

Leonard: You were trying to blow up my head.
Sheldon: So it was working.

Leonard: It wasn’t, it was not, you are a nutcase.
Sheldon: Oh we’ll see about that (tries again), heads up you people in the front row, this is a splash zone.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: You could have offered me a ride home. 

Leonard: You’re lucky I didn’t run you over. 
Sheldon: I really don’t understand what you’re so unhappy about, you begged me to come, I came, there’s just no pleasing you. 

Leonard: You’re right, I’m the problem, I’m the one that needs help. 
Sheldon: Well that’s not much of an apology, but I’ll take it. 

Leonard: Excuse me. Is there anything you’d like to apologise for?
Sheldon: Yes. I’m sorry I tried to blow up your head. It was uncalled for. 

Leonard: What? 
Sheldon: Now, who would do that?

Leonard: Oh jeez. Is this suit really look that bad?
Sheldon: Forget your suit, look at my arms waving, I’m like a flamingo on Ritalin. 

Leonard: Bite me. Sheldon, how could you just sit there and let them spy on me?
Sheldon: They were clever, Leonard. They exploited my complete lack of interest in what you were doing. 

Leonard: Well, we sort of decided to wing it. 
Sheldon: Oh, even I know that’s lame. 

Raj: Nice close up, by the way. 
Sheldon: Interesting, her jaws are clenched, no tongue access, clearly a bad sign amongst mating humans. 

Leonard: That’s not a bad sign.
Sheldon: Please, you might as well have been two iguana with no dewlap enlargement. 

Penny (entering): Hi.
Sheldon: Oh, hi Penny. FYI, the hot water is inadequate on machine 2 so colours only, and 4 is still releasing the fabric softener too early in the cycle so I’d avoid using that for your delicates. 

Penny (tipping all her laundry into one machine at once): Thanks. 
Sheldon: Oh, good Lord. Why don’t you just take your clothes down to the river and beat them with a rock? 

Penny: Sheldon, may I ask you a question? 
Sheldon: I would prefer that you not, but I won’t go so far as to forbid it. 

Penny: Alright, I heard yes, so… okay, here’s my question, has Leonard ever dated, you know, a regular girl. 
Sheldon: Well I assume you’re not referring to digestive regularity? Because I’ve come to learn that such inquiries are inappropriate. 

Penny: No, I meant has he ever been involved with someone who wasn’t a braniac? 
Sheldon: Oh. Well, a few years ago he did go out with a woman who had a PhD in French Literature. 

Penny: How is that not a braniac? 
Sheldon: Well, for one thing, she was French. For another, it was literature. 

Penny: So, do you think that if Leonard and I keep dating he’ll eventually get bored with me. 
Sheldon: That depends.

Penny: On what? 
Sheldon: Do you have a working knowledge of quantum physics? 

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Do you speak Klingon? 

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Do you know any card tricks?

Penny: Okay, okay, you know, I get it, Leonard has no business being involved with a waitress slash actress who felt so insecure that she lied to him about finishing community college. 
Sheldon: Why would you lie about that?

Penny: Well, he was going on and on about this college and that grad school and I didn’t want him to think I was some stupid loser. 
Sheldon: You thought the opposite of stupid loser was community college graduate? 

Penny: You know, there are a lot of successful people in this country who are community college graduates. 
Sheldon: Yeah, but you were neither. 

Penny: Right, okay look, this is between you and me, you cannot tell Leonard any of this. 
Sheldon: You’re asking me to keep a secret?

Penny: Yeah. 
Sheldon: Well I’m sorry, but you would have had to express that desire before revealing the secret, so that I could choose whether or not I wanted to accept the covenant of secret keeping. You can’t impose a secret on an ex post facto basis. 

Penny: What? 
Sheldon: Secret keeping is a complicated endeavour. One has to be concerned not only about what one says, but about facial expression, autonomic reflexes, when I try to deceive, I myself have more nervous tics than a lyme disease research facility. (Long pause.) It’s a joke. It relies on the hominymic relationship between tick the blood-sucking arachnid, and tic the involuntary muscular contraction. I made it up myself. 

Penny: Okay, look, if Leonard finds out that I lied, I will absolutely die of embarrassment. 
Sheldon: Physiologically impossible.

Penny: Oh Sheldon, please, look, I’m asking you as a friend. 
Sheldon: So you’re saying that friendship contains within it an inherent obligation to maintain confidences?

Penny: Well, yeah. 
Sheldon: Interesting. See, one more question, and perhaps I should have led with this, when did we become friends? 

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: I.e, I couldn’t become Green Lantern unless I was chosen by the guardians of Oa, but given enough start-up capital and an adequate research facility, I could be Batman.

Leonard: You could be Batman?
Sheldon: Sure. (In a gravelly voice) I’m Batman. See.

Leonard: Great. So you just let me know when you know. So… (she leaves) Oh God, I am the bad fish! What did I do wrong?
Sheldon: Why are you asking me, I have no information about your interactions with Penny other than what you provided me, nor do I have any method of learning such things. (Runs away.) 

Leonard (chasing him): What does that mean?
Sheldon: Nothing. You seem to be implying an informational back channel between me and Penny where obviously none exists.

Leonard: No I didn’t.
Sheldon: I just think you need to be careful how you phrase things, sir. 

Leonard: What’s going on with you?
Sheldon: Well I might ask you the same question. Why do you insist on attempting to drag me into matters which have nothing to do with me? But exist between you and Penny. A person to whom I barely speak. (His eye begins to twitch.) 

Leonard: What’s wrong with your face? 
Sheldon: There’s no reason to bring my looks into this. Good day, Leonard.

Leonard: What? 
Sheldon: I said Good Day! (He leaves)

Penny: Sheldon, I’m working.
Sheldon: Why don’t you take a minute to decide (leads her away) I can’t keep your secret Penny. I’m going to fold like an energy based anobo protein in conformational space. Like a renaissance triptych. Like a cheap suit.

Penny: Oh, look, why is it so hard for you to keep one little secret?
Sheldon: I’m constitutionally incapable. That’s why I was refused clearance for a very prestigious government research fellowship at a secret military supercollider, located beneath a fake agricultural station 12.5 miles south east of Travers City, Michigan. Which you did not hear about from me. 

Penny: Look, just forget I told you about me not graduating from community college. Okay?
Sheldon: Forget! You want me to forget? This mind does not forget. I haven’t forgotten a single thing since the day my mother stopped breast feeding me. It was a drizzly Tuesday.

Leonard: What do you mean, you’re moving out? Why? 
Sheldon: There doesn’t have to be a reason. 

Leonard: Yeah, there kind of does.
Sheldon: Not necessarily. This is a classic example of munchausen’s trilemma. Either the reason is predicated on a series of sub-reasons leading to an infinite regression, or it tracks back to arbitrary axiomatic statements, or it’s ultimately circular, i.e., I’m moving out because I’m moving out. 

Leonard: I’m still confused.
Sheldon: Leonard, I don’t see how I could have made it any simpler. 

Howard: And some of those skinless chicks were hot. 
Sheldon: If you’ll excuse me, I’m going to pack. 

Leonard: That was fast. 
Sheldon: It’s my pre-packed disaster evacuation bag. Recommended by the department of homeland security. And Sarah Connor. 

Leonard: Where are you gonna live? 
Sheldon: Until I find a permanent place I will stay with friends. 

Raj: Well you can’t stay with me, I have a teeny tiny apartment. 
Sheldon: Excuse me, but isn’t hosting guests an aspect of Menushya Yajna, one of the five central religious duties or sacrifices of the Hindu householder? 

Raj: I hate trains. 
Sheldon: Don’t be ridiculous, you love trains. 

Scene: Raj’s apartment. 
Sheldon: This is a very old building. 

Raj: Sixty years. Used to be a watch factory. 
Sheldon: Uh-oh.

Raj: What? 
Sheldon: Don’t you worry about the residual radium from the luminous dials?

Raj: Not until now. 
Sheldon: I can’t believe I didn’t bring my gieger counter. You know, I had it on my bed and I didn’t pack it. 

Raj: Well, if you’re not comfortable staying here, Sheldon…
Sheldon: I’m kidding, I packed it. It was a joke, I was subverting the conversational expectations. I believe they call that the, um, old switcheroo. 

Raj: Yes, isn’t she an amazing actress.
Sheldon: Actually, I’d say she’s a poor man’s Madhuri Dixit. 

Raj: How dare you. Aishwarya Rai is a Goddess. By comparison Madhuri Dixit is a leprous prostitute.
Sheldon: Sorry, I didn’t mean to offend you. Obviously you’re not that familiar with Indian cinema. 

Scene: Howard’s bedroom. Howard is in bed, Sheldon is on a blow up mattress on the floor.
Sheldon: I’ve never slept on an air mattress before. No lumbar support whatsoever. 

Howard: Maybe you’d be happier on a park bench? 
Sheldon: I don’t see any way to get a park bench in here.

Howard: Do you want to switch?
Sheldon: No, that’s fine. I’m perfectly comfortable sleeping on a bouncy castle. 

Howard: Get out of bed, we’re switching.
Sheldon: Now, only if you want to.

Howard: For God’s sake, ma, I’m 27 years old. It’s not even a school night! (To Sheldon) Comfy now?
Sheldon: Meh. That poster of Halle Berry’s a little unnerving. 

Howard: So don’t look at it.
Sheldon: She’s like my fourth favourite catwoman.

Howard: No kidding?
Sheldon: Yeah, Julie Newmar, Michelle Pfieffer, Eartha Kitt and then her. 

Howard: What about Lee Meriwether?
Sheldon: Oh, I forgot about Lee Meriwether.

Howard: Well I’m glad that’s settled. 
Sheldon: That makes Halle Berry my fifth favourite catwoman. There’s Julie Newmar, Michelle Pfieffer, Eartha Kitt, Lee Meriwether…

Howard: Please, I’m begging you, go to sleep.
Sheldon: I’m trying, I’m counting catwomen. She did make a fine mutant in the X-Men movies though.

Howard: Oh for God’s sake.
Sheldon: But she’s not my favourite of the X-Men, in order that would be Wolverine, Cyclops, oh wait, I forgot Professor X. Professor X, Wolverine, Cyclops, Iceman, then Storm, Angel, the Beast, oh wait, Nightcrawler. Professor X, Nightcrawler, Wolverine, Cyclops, Iceman, then Storm, Angel….

Leonard: I’m coming! (Opens the door. Sheldon falls inside, wearing his pyjamas. Howard is outside.)
Sheldon: Hey, there he is, there’s my old buddy-bud-bud. 

Howard: Koothrappali dumped him on me, and he couldn’t get to sleep, so I gave him a glass of warm milk with a handful of my mom’s valium in it. But he still wouldn’t shut up, so, tag, you’re it. 
Sheldon: I’m ba-ack!

Leonard: I still don’t know why you left.
Sheldon: I can’t tell you.

Leonard: Why not.
Sheldon: I promised Penny. 

Leonard: You promised Penny what? 
Sheldon: That I wouldn’t tell you the secret. Shhhhh!

Leonard: What secret. Tell me the secret. 
Sheldon: Mom smokes in the car. Jesus is okay with it, but we can’t tell Dad. 

Leonard: Not that secret, the other secret.
Sheldon: I’m Batman. Shhhhh!

Leonard: Dammit, Sheldon! You said Penny told you a secret, what was the secret.
Sheldon: Okay, I’ll tell you, but you can’t tell Leonard. 

Leonard: I promise. 
Sheldon: Penny lied about graduating from community college because she is afraid she’s not smart enough for Leonard. 

Leonard: So it’s nothing I did? It’s her problem? 
Sheldon: I drank milk that tasted funny. 

Leonard: Penny thinks I’m too smart for her, that’s ridiculous. 
Sheldon: I know, most of your work is extremely derivative. Don’t worry, that’s not a secret. Everybody knows. 

Scene: The building entrance lobby. The guys enter. Sheldon is dressed as a medieval monk, Howard is a court jester, Raj is a medieval gentleman and Leonard is a knight.
Sheldon: Worst Renaissance Fair ever.

Leonard: Please let it go, Sheldon.
Sheldon: It was rife with historical inaccuracies. For example, the tavern girl serving flagons of mead, now her costume was obviously Germanic, but in 1487 the Bavarian purity laws or Rhineheitsgebot severely limited the availability of mead. At best they would have had some sort of spiced wine.

Leonard: You’re nitpicking.
Sheldon: Oh-ho! Really? Well here’s another nit for you. The flagons would not have been made of polypropylene.

Howard: Renaissance fairs aren’t about historical accuracy. They’re about taking chubby girls who work at Kinko’s and lacing them up in corsets so tight their bosom jumps out and says howdy.
Sheldon: Bosoms would not have said howdy in the fifteenth century. If anything they would have said “huzzah!”

Penny (arriving with a man in tow): Hi guys. Looks like you’ve been to the Renaissance fair. I’m hoping.
Sheldon: Renaissance fair? More of a medieval slash age of enlightenment slash any excuse to wear a codpiece fair.

Raj: By moving on, do you mean, she’s going out with other men and you spent the afternoon making fifteenth century soap with Wolowitz?
Sheldon: That was not fifteenth century soap, my God those people need to learn you can’t just put “ye olde” in front of anything and expect to get away with it.

Leonard: Can we please just go in, my chain mail is stuck in my underwear.
Sheldon: You’re wearing modern underwear?

Leonard: Relatively modern. Why, what are you wearing?
Sheldon: I fashioned historically accurate undergarments out of linen.

Leonard: You went out and bought linen?
Sheldon: Don’t be silly, I borrowed one of your pillow cases.

Leonard: What? I’ve dated plenty of women. There was Joyce Kim, Leslie Winkle.
Sheldon: Notify the editors of the Oxford English Dictionary, the word plenty has been redefined to mean two.

Raj: What about Leslie Winkle.
Sheldon: Oh no.

Raj: Why?
Sheldon: Her research methodology is sloppy, she’s unjustifiably arrogant about loop quantum gravity, and to make matters worse she’s often mean to me.

Howard: I’d hit that.
Sheldon: You’d hit particulate soil on a colloidal suspension. Mud.

Scene: The university cafeteria.
Sheldon: You know how I know we’re not in The Matrix?

Leonard: How?
Sheldon: If we were, the food would be better.

Leslie: Hey, dummy.
Sheldon: Hello to you, insufficiently intelligent person.

Leonard: Uh, sure.
Sheldon: Well, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to go do work that promises significant results, as opposed to what you do, which does not. Yeah, you heard me.

Scene: The apartment. Leonard is dressed smartly and placing wine on the table. Sheldon enters.
Sheldon: Great news. My mom sent me my old Nintendo 64.

Leonard: Terrific.
Sheldon: You know what this means, don’t you? Break out the Red Bull, it’s time to rock Mario old school.

Leonard: I kind of have other plans tonight.
Sheldon: But it’s Friday. Friday’s always vintage game night. Look, mom included the memory card, we can pick up where I left off in 1999 when I had pernicious anaemia.

Leonard: Well, the thing is, someone’s coming over.
Sheldon: Well then, no problem, I have three controllers, the more the merrier.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s a date, I have a date coming over.
Sheldon: Oh, well you can’t blame me for not jumping to that conclusion.

Leonard: Why, what’s so unusual about me having a date?
Sheldon: Well, statistically speaking…

Leonard: Alright, alright. Well, uh, nevertheless, I have one now and I would appreciate it if you would, you know, make yourself scarce.
Sheldon: Leonard, I am a published theoretical physicist with two doctorates and an IQ which can’t be accurately measured by normal tests, how much scarcer could I be?

Leonard: You know what I mean, could you just give us a little privacy?
Sheldon: You want me to leave the apartment?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: You mean just go someplace else and be… someplace else?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Well, why should I leave, this is my apartment too.

Leonard: I know it is, and if science ever discovers a second member of your species and you two would like some privacy I would be more than happy to get out of your way.
Sheldon: Well alright then.

Penny: Sheldon? What are you doing?
Sheldon: Playing Super Mario on a poorly coded Nintendo 64 emulator.

Penny: Yeah, but why are you doing it on the stairs?
Sheldon: I’m a modern day Napoleon exiled to the Elba of the staircase because Leonard, get this, has a date.

Penny: Oh. Oh, well, good for him. Yeah but, why are you sitting here, why don’t you just go to a movie or something?
Sheldon: Alone?

Penny: Yeah, why not?
Sheldon: What if I choke on my popcorn, who will administer the Heimlich manoeuvre.

Penny: Well then don’t order popcorn.
Sheldon: No popcorn at the mo… listen to yourself.

Penny: Well why don’t you go to a coffee shop.
Sheldon: I don’t drink coffee.

Penny: They have other things.
Sheldon: What do they have?

Penny: I don’t know, you know, cookies, pastries…
Sheldon: Pastries such as bearclaws?

Penny: Yeah, sure.
Sheldon: I don’t like bearclaws.

Leslie (entering): Heya Penny. Dumbass.
Sheldon: Leslie Winkle. Of all the overrated physicists in all the labs in all the world, why does it have to be Leslie Winkle?

Penny: Well, they have a lot in common. I mean they’re both scientists.
Sheldon: Oh please. The only way she could make a contribution to science would be if they resume sending chimps into space.

Penny: Okay, well I have a date too, so see ya.
Sheldon: Everybody has a date. Even you, Mario, going after Princess Peach. And what am I doing, I’m just enabling you.

Leonard: Okay, now my uncles are bald, but my Aunt Edna is one of the hairiest women you will ever meet. So… Sweet lady. It always tickles when she hugs me. (Sheldon knocks and enters again.) What now?
Sheldon: I have to make pee-pee.

Scene: The university lunch room.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I am not going back to the Renaissance Fair.

Howard: Come on, Sheldon, there’s so few places I can wear my jester costume.
Sheldon: I don’t care. There are far too many historical anomalies for my comfort.

Raj: Oh, okay, how about this. You can go dressed as a Star Trek science officer exploring a planet similar to Earth in the 1500s.
Sheldon: You mean like Spock?

Raj: Sure.
Sheldon: Fascinating.

Howard: Hmm, let’s do it. (Sheldon does not move. Leonard looks confused.)
Sheldon: If you’re having trouble deciding where to sit may I suggest one potato two potato, or as I call it the Leslie Winkle experimental methodology.

Leonard: Don’t make this hard for me.
Sheldon: It’s not hard. It’s simple. You can either sit with me, your friend, colleague and roommate, or you can sit with an overrated scientist you might have sex with.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Penny.

Penny: Third floor tonight. Mixing it up? (Sheldon indicates extension cord.) Oh. You know, I still don’t understand why you just don’t go to dinner or something.
Sheldon: Alright, let’s say I go to dinner alone. And during the meal I have to use the rest room. How do I know someone’s not touching my food?

Penny: Goodnight Sheldon.
Sheldon: Penny, hold on. Are you sure things can’t work out with you and Leonard?

Penny: Excuse me?
Sheldon: I’m just wondering if you really gave it the old college try? Or in your case the old community college try?

Penny: Okay, where is this coming from?
Sheldon: Leonard is upstairs right now with my arch enemy.

Penny: Your arch enemy?
Sheldon: Yes, the Doctor Doom to my Mr Fantastic. The Doctor Octopus to my Spiderman. The Doctor Sivana to my Captain Marvel.

Penny: Okay, I get it, I get it, I get it.
Sheldon: Do you know, it’s amazing how many supervillains have advanced degrees. Graduate school should probably do a better job of screening those people out.

Penny: Sheldon, come back, you’re losing me.
Sheldon: Leslie Winkle, Penny. She belittles my research.

Penny: Oh, sweetie, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: She called me dumbass.

Penny: I know. I heard.
Sheldon: Given this situation, I have no choice but to withdraw my previous objections to your ill considered relationship with Leonard.

Penny: Oh, gee, well, thankyou for that. But, um, I think for now Leonard and I are just going to stay friends.
Sheldon: No, that response is unacceptable to me.

Penny: Sheldon, you are a smart guy, you must know…
Sheldon: Smart? I’d have to lose 60 IQ points to be classified as smart.

Penny: Are you going to let me talk?
Sheldon: I’m sorry.

Penny: You must know that if Leonard and Leslie want to be together, nothing you can do is going to stop it.
Sheldon: You continue to underestimate my abilities madam.

Penny: Okay, let me put it this way, if you’re really Leonard’s friend you will support him no matter who he wants to be with.
Sheldon: Wait a minute, why am I doing all the giving here? If Leonard’s really my friend, why doesn’t he have to support me in my hatred of Leslie Winkle?

Penny: Because love trumps hate.
Sheldon: Oh now you’re just making stuff up.

Penny: Okay. Goodnight Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh Mario. If only I could control everyone the way I control you. Hop, you little plumber, hop, hop, hop.

Leonard: If the word is pee-pee, just do it.
Sheldon: Leonard, you are my friend. And friends support their friends, apparently. So I am withdrawing my objection to your desire to have a relationship with Leslie.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: I will graciously overlook the fact that she is an arrogant sub-par scientist, who actually believes loop quantum gravity better unites quantum mechanics with general relativity than does string theory. You kids have fun.

Leslie: Hang on a second. Loop quantum gravity clearly offers more testable predictions than string theory.
Sheldon: I’m listening, amuse me.

Leslie: Okay, well, for one thing we expect quantii space-time to manifest itself as minute differences in the speed of light for different colours.
Sheldon: Balderdash. Matter clearly consists of tiny strings.

Leonard: Sheldon, don’t make that noise, it’s disrespectful.
Sheldon: I hope so, it was a snort of derision.

Leslie: I’m sorry, I could have accepted our kids being genetically unable to eat ice-cream or ever get a good view of a parade, but this? This is a deal breaker. (Leaves.)
Sheldon: Look on the bright side.

Leonard: What’s the bright side?
Sheldon: Only nine more months to comic-con.

Scene: The Renaissance Fair. The guys are in costume. Sheldon is Spock and has a tri-corder.
Sheldon: Captain, I’m getting an unusual reading.

Howard: Yeah.
Sheldon: That’s a temporal anomaly. Corn dogs didn’t come into existence until the first half of the twentieth century.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is on the sofa, using his laptop. He is wearing a headset.
Sheldon: Fellow warriors, this is Sheldor the Conqueror. We are about to enter Axel’s fortress. Now this is a long run, so let’s do another bladder check. Alright Barry, we’ll wait for you again, but you really should see a doctor. (There is banging at the door.) Sheldor is AFK. (Goes out to find Penny having trouble getting into her apartment.) Penny, are you experiencing some sort of difficulty?

Penny: Yes, I can’t get my stupid door open.
Sheldon: You appear to have put your car key in the door lock, are you aware of that?

Penny: Yeah!
Sheldon: Alright then. (Turns to return inside. One of the grocery bags Penny is holding falls to the floor spilling groceries.) 

Penny: Dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit.
Sheldon: Would it be possible for you to do this a little more quietly?

Penny: I can’t get the damned key out.
Sheldon: Well that’s not surprising. That Baldwin lock on your door uses traditional edge mounted cylinders, whereas the key for your Volkswagon uses a centre cylinder system.

Penny: Thankyou, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. Point of inquiry, why did you put your car key in the door lock?

Penny: Why? I’ll tell you why. Because today I had an audition, it took me two hours to get there, I waited an hour for my turn, and before I could even start they told me I looked too Midwest for the part. Too Midwest? What the hell does that even mean?
Sheldon: Well, the American Midwest was mostly settled by Scandinavian and Germanic peoples who, well they have a characteristic facial bone structure….

Penny: I know what it means, Sheldon! God, you know, I have been in L.A. for almost two years now, and I haven’t got a single acting job, I have accomplished nothing, haven’t gotten a raise at work, haven’t even had sex in six months, and just now when I was walking up those stairs a fly flew in my mouth and I ate it.
Sheldon: Well, actually, insects are a dietary staple in many cultures, they’re almost pure protein.

Penny (picking up the bag she has just repacked, whereupon the bottom falls out and the groceries fall to the floor again): Oh, sonofabitch!
Sheldon: I believe the condensation on your frozen foods weakened the structural integrity of the bag. But returning to your key conundrum, perhaps you should call a locksmith and have him open the door for you.

Penny: I did, and he said he’ll get here when he gets here.
Sheldon: And you’re frustrated because he phrased his reply in the form of a meaningless tautology?

Penny: No! I am frustrated because I am a failure at everything and my breath smells like fly. (Bursts into tears.)
Sheldon: There there. (Reluctantly) Would you prefer to wait in our apartment?

Penny: No Sheldon, I’d rather sit on this freezing cold floor sobbing like a three year-old.
Sheldon: Alright then. (Turns to go inside again.) 

Penny: For God’s sake! (Stomps into apartment.)
Sheldon: Just when I think I’ve gotten the hang of sarcasm.

Scene: Inside the apartment.
Sheldon: Make yourself comfortable. (Sits in Sheldon’s place.) Not there. (Sits on other end of sofa. Puts feet on table. Sheldon looks disapprovingly. Removes feet from table. Sheldon sits and replaces headset.) Sheldor is back online.

Penny: Sheldor?
Sheldon: The Conqueror.

Penny: What are you doing?
Sheldon: AFK. I’m playing Age of Conan, an online multiplayer game set in the universe of Robert E. Howard’s Conan the Barbarian.

Penny: Oh.
Sheldon: Sheldor, back online.

Penny: What’s AFK?
Sheldon: AFK. Away from keyboard.

Penny: OIC.
Sheldon: What does that stand for?

Penny: Oh, I see?
Sheldon: Yes, but what does it stand for?

Scene: The stairwell. Leonard arrives and sees the spilled groceries. A cat is lapping at a spilled pot of ice-cream. Cut to inside. Penny now has the laptop, Sheldon is instructing her.
Sheldon: Now just click on the enchanted boots to put them on.

Penny: Oh, I don’t know. Can I see them in another colour?
Sheldon: Just click on them. Congratulations, you are now a level three warrior.

Penny: Uh-huh, yeah, do I stay in the jungle or go towards the beach?
Sheldon: It doesn’t matter, right now you’re looking for treasure.

Penny: Okay. (Leonard motions for Sheldon to talk in the kitchen.) Wait, wait, where are you going?
Sheldon: You’re okay, if you run into crocodiles just kick them with your boots.

Leonard: Want to catch me up?
Sheldon: Well let’s see, uh, she attempted to open her apartment with her car key, because her face is overly Midwestern, um, she hasn’t had sex in six months, and she ate a fly.

Penny: Oh my God, a treasure chest, I’m rich!
Sheldon: Level three and she thinks she’s rich! What a noob.

Leonard: Hey, check it out, it’s just corn starch and water.
Sheldon: They make up a non-Newtonian fluid which is liquid, but solid under the percussive action of the speaker.

Penny: Okay, look, I bought the game, and I’ve been exploring the Island of Tordage but I can’t figure out how to get past the guard captain.
Sheldon: Do you have the enchanted sword?

Penny: No, no, I’ve a bronze dagger.
Sheldon: You can’t slay the guard captain with a bronze dagger, my Lord it’s like the car key in your apartment door all over again.

Penny: Alright, alright, how do I get the sword?
Sheldon: Well, have you been to the Temple of Mithra?

Penny: Is that the place on the hill with the weird priests in front of it?
Sheldon: No, no, no, it’s… oh for God’s sakes, gimme. (Takes laptop.)

Penny: Thank you, I really appreciate this.
Sheldon: You’re going to have to learn to do these things for yourself, Penny.

Leonard: No, that’s Marcie. Peppermint Patty’s just athletic.
Sheldon: There you go, one enchanted sword.

Penny: Right, gimme, gimme, gimme, I want to kill the guard captain. (Leaves).
Sheldon: That girl needs to get a life.

Penny (whispering): Sheldon. (Sing-song) Shel-don.
Sheldon: Danger, danger.

Penny: No danger, look, it’s just me, Penny, look, I got to level 25 and reached Purple Lotus Swamp, right?
Sheldon: You’re in my bedroom.

Penny: Yeah. Leonard gave me an emergency key.
Sheldon: People can’t be in my bedroom.

Penny: Okay, well can we go talk in the living room?
Sheldon: I’m not wearing pyjama bottoms.

Penny: Why not?
Sheldon: I spilled grape juice.

Penny: Well, wear different pyjamas.
Sheldon: I can’t wear different pyjamas, these are my Monday pyjamas. Penny, people cannot be in my bedroom.

Penny: Okay, just tell me, is it too soon to join a quest to the Black Castle?
Sheldon: You were invited on a quest to the Black Castle?

Penny: Yeah, yeah, by some guys in Budapest, I’m just not sure it’s the right move for my character.
Sheldon: Of course it’s not, you’re only a level 25, the Hungarians are just using you for dragon fodder.

Gablehauser: People, I am very busy today.
Sheldon: I realise that Dr Gablehauser but it is your job, as head of the department, to mediate all inter-departmental disputes. University policy manual chapter four, subsection two, mediation of inter-departmental disputes.

Gablehauser: Dr Cooper, Dr Winkle apologises.
Sheldon: No she doesn’t.

Leslie: No I don’t.
Sheldon: Here’s the problem. I was clearly signed up to use the mainframe in Buckman 204, and Dr Winkle just wantonly ripped the sign-up sheet off the wall.

Leslie: It wasn’t even an official sign-up sheet. He printed it himself and he put his name down in every slot for the next six months.
Sheldon: If it is a crime to ensure that the universities resources are not being squandered chasing sub-atomic wild geese then I plead guilty. (His phone rings.) Oh, Penny!

Gablehauser: You need to get that Dr Cooper?
Sheldon: God, no.

Leslie: Well don’t turn it off, you might miss your call from the Nobel committee letting you know you’ve been nominated as dumbass laureate of the year.
Sheldon: Oh yeah, well, you wouldn’t even be nominated. Dr Gablehauser, I have a series of important multi-bit calculations and simulations to run. All she’s doing is reducing irrelevant data and making a mock…

Gablehauser (as phone rings): Excuse me. Gablehauser. (Holding phone out to Sheldon) It’s for you.
Sheldon: Hello. Penny, this is not a good time. No, I told you, you’re not prepared for the Sanctum of Burning Souls. You need to be in a group of at least five for that quest, and one should be a level 35 healer. Penny, I can’t log on and help you. We’ll talk when I get home. (Puts phone down) I’m not getting the computing time, am I?

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon enters.
Sheldon: Leonard, you have to do something about Penny. She is interfering with my sleep, she’s interfering with my work, and if I had another significant aspect of my life, I’m sure she’d be interfering with that too.

Leonard: Why should I do something, you’re the one who introduced her to online gaming.
Sheldon: Well, yes, but you’re the one who said hello to her when she moved in. If you’d simply restrained yourself none of this would be happening.

Leonard: Why don’t you just tell her to leave you alone.
Sheldon: I did. I told her, I texted her, I sent out a very emphatic twitter. I even changed my facebook status to Sheldon Cooper wishes Penny would leave him alone. I don’t know what else to do.

Leonard: Well, what am I supposed to do?
Sheldon: I don’t know, but if you don’t figure something out, I warn you I shall become very difficult to live with.

Leonard: You mean, up until now we’ve been experiencing the happy funtime Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Sheldon, wake up.
Sheldon: Danger, danger.

Leslie (arriving): Afternoon men. Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh yeah, well your attempt at juvenilizing me by excluding me from the set of adult males…. oh, I’m too tired to do this.

Leslie: Right, I heard you’ve been pulling all nighters with middle-earth Barbie.
Sheldon: She comes into my room. No-one’s supposed to be in my room.

Leonard: Leslie, you are way off base here.
Sheldon: Hang on, Leonard, while I have no respect for Leslie as a scientist, or a human being for that matter, we have to concede her undeniable expertise in the interrelated fields of promiscuity and general sluttiness.

Leslie: Thank you. My point is that Tinkerbell just needs to get her some.
Sheldon: Some what? Oh, yes, some sexual intercourse.

Leonard: Excuse me, this whole idea is insane.
Sheldon: Yeah, yeah, enough debate, I’m going to take action. (Leans over to a good looking man on a nearby table.) Excuse me, are you currently involved in a sexual relationship?

Man: No.
Sheldon: Would you like to be?

Leonard: Sheldon…
Sheldon: Zip it pip it. Can I have your phone number?

Man: Uh… (checks out Sheldon’s package) Yeah, yeah. (Pulls out pen and writes it on Sheldon’s hand.)
Sheldon: There, problem solved.

Penny: Okay, I’m at the gate to the Treasury of the Ancients, I’m going in.
Sheldon: Stay close to the wall. Avoid the mummies.

Penny: Got it.
Sheldon: I must say, you’re playing very well for a woman of 23?

Penny: 22.
Sheldon: Right. 22. (Cut to his screen, he is filling in an online dating profile.)

Penny: Oh, here come the mummies, which spell do I use? The hateful strike, or the frenzy stance?
Sheldon: What happened to the rest of your group?

Penny: I dumped them, they’re a bunch of wussies.
Sheldon: Frenzy stance.

Penny: Frenzy, frenzy, frenzy, frenzy, frenzy!
Sheldon: So listen, would you describe your ideal vacation as a wild adventure to unknown lands, or staying at home curled up with a good book?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: These are market research questions. I’m filling out the online registration for your game.

Penny: Oh, okay, wild adventure. Oh, frenzy stance isn’t working, die you undead mummy, die!
Sheldon: Drink a healing potion.

Penny: Thank you.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. Anyhow, on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being always initiated by him, and 5 being always initiated by you, how do you prefer your sexual encounters to begin?

Penny: That’s on the registration?
Sheldon: Oh yes, it’s quite extensive. But if we complete it, we get a free expansion pack, 75 additional quests.

Penny: Ooh, awesome, okay, I totally like to initiate I’m a big old five.
Sheldon: Good to know. Big old five.

Man: Hi.
Sheldon: Leonard, this is Tom.

Leonard: Hi Tom. Sheldon? Didn’t I explain to you about your little mistake in the cafeteria?
Sheldon: Yes, you were very clear, as was everyone else at the table. Tom, however, has been chosen by science as a suitable mate for Penny.

Leonard: Chosen by science?
Sheldon: Well, what passes for science on dating sites. They claim to use heuristic algorithms, but it may well be hokum.

Leonard: You got Penny to sign up for online dating?
Sheldon: No, of course not. No, I used trickery and deceit.

Leonard: This is bad.
Sheldon: Tom is a paramedic with the fire department, but he’s going to med school at night, uh, he likes the outdoors, and, uh, strong women who initiate sex.

Leonard: Really, really bad.
Sheldon: I’m surprised you struck out with Penny. Apparently she’s a big old five.

Penny (entering, looking ratty in baggy clothes and with her hair unwashed): Sheldon, what do you want.
Sheldon: Oh, good, you got my note. Penny, I’d like you to meet Tom, uh, Penny, this is Tom, Tom, may I present Penny.

Penny: Yeah, Hi, listen, as long as I’m here, I’m on a quest with a bunch of noobs, they don’t know what they’re doing, we’ve got one assassin, three spellcasters and no tank.
Sheldon: Can we talk about this later.

Penny: No, no, no, no, I need you now.
Sheldon: But wouldn’t you prefer to socialise with Tom, who is a sexually passive outdoorsman.

Leonard and Howard together: Don’t! Don’t! Don’t!
Sheldon: I’ll tell you why.

Leonard and Howard: O-o-o-oh!
Sheldon: I had to sanitize my hands because the university replaced the paper towels in the rest rooms with hot air blowers.

Leonard and Howard: Why? Don’t!
Sheldon: Hot air blowers are incubators and spewers of bacteria and pestilence. Frankly it would be more hygienic if they just had a plague infested gibbon sneeze my hands dry.

Leonard and Howard together: Well, wow, that’s incredible.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Thirty what, under thirty what, to watch what?

Raj: Thirty visionaries under thirty years of age to watch as they challenge the preconceptions of their fields.
Sheldon: If I had a million guesses I never would have gotten that.

Raj: It’s a lease.
Sheldon: I’m confused. Was there some sort of peer review committee to determine which scientists would be included?

Raj: Peer review? It’s People magazine. People picked me.
Sheldon: What people?

Raj: The people from People.
Sheldon: Yeah, but exactly who are these people? What are their credentials, how are they qualified, what makes accidentally noticing a hunk of rock that’s been traipsing around the solar system for billions of years more noteworthy than any other scientific accomplishment made by someone under thirty?

Leonard: Are you proud of yourself?
Sheldon: In general, yes.

Scene: Sheldon’s office. He is making annotations on his board.
Sheldon: Oh, there’s my missing neutrino. You were hiding from me as an unbalanced charge, weren’t you, you little subatomic Dickens?

Leonard (entering with Howard): Hi Sheldon.
Sheldon: Here, look, look, I found my missing neutrino.

Leonard: Well, we’re going to go apologise to Raj and invite him out to dinner.
Sheldon: Apologise, for what?

Leonard: Well, he came over last night with some pretty good news, and we weren’t very supportive.
Sheldon: I sense you’re trying to tell me something.

Howard: You were a colossal ass-hat.
Sheldon: Oh! No, I beg to differ. Of the three of us, I was by far the most supportive.

Leonard: Really, do tell.
Sheldon: How will Raj ever reach true greatness if his friends lower the bar for him? When I was eleven, my sister bought our father a “world’s greatest dad” coffee mug, and frankly the man coasted until the day he died.

Leonard: Okay, let’s try it this way, what if the People magazine thing is the best Raj is ever going to achieve?
Sheldon: I had not considered that.

Leonard: Come on.
Sheldon: I often forget other people have limitations. It’s so sad.

Leonard: And when we go in there, let’s show Raj that we’re happy for him.
Sheldon: But I’m not.

Howard: Well then fake it. Look at me, I could be grinding on the fact that without my stabilizing telescope mount he never would have found that stupid little clump of cosmic schmutz, but I’m bigger than that.
Sheldon: Fine, what do you want me to do?

Gablehauser: Dr Hoffstadter.
Sheldon: Dr Gablehauser.

Gablehauser: I’m not talking about you, I’m talking about me. You, my exotic young friend are my star.
Sheldon: Well, you didn’t discover him, you merely noticed he was here, much like he did with 2008 NQ sub 17.

Leonard: Sheldon!
Sheldon: Oh, sorry. (Smiles)

Howard: Wait a minute, I called dibs on Fishbine’s office the day he started showing up at work in his bathrobe.
Sheldon: He gets a new office, I can’t even get paper towels in the men’s room?

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Damn, this is hard. (Smiles) 

Leonard: You can stop smiling now.
Sheldon: Aaaah!

Raj: It’s fantastic, apparently the camera loves me and I it. They shot me in front of a starry background where I posed like this. (Stares into space.) They’re going to digitally add a supernova, they say it’s the perfect metaphor for my incandescent talent.
Sheldon: Right, a ball of hot flaming gas that collapses in on itself. (Leonard nudges him. He smiles. Phone rings.) 

Raj: Oh, I’m sorry, is that politically incorrect? In India we just call them untouchables.
Sheldon: Now?

Raj: Oh, you’re welcome. Of course, I couldn’t get you into the VIP section, because, you know, that’s for VIPs, and you guys are just, you know, Ps.
Sheldon: There’s a tribe in Papua New Guinea where, when a hunter flaunts his success to the rest of the village they kill him, and drive away evil spirits with a drum made of his skin. Superstitious nonsense of course, but one can see their point. (Smiles)

Raj: Sheldon?
Sheldon: I can make it, but I won’t.

Penny: And you guys aren’t going? I can’t believe you, Raj is celebrating a tremendous accomplishment and you’re not even going to be there to support him?
Sheldon: A tremendous accomplishment would be if the planetary body he discovered were plummeting toward Earth and he exploded it with his mind.

Raj: Look at that. I got a date with Penny. I can’t believe it took you a whole year.
Sheldon: Now?

Leonard: Let’s just eat so I can get to bed. With any luck tonight will be the night my sleep apnoea kills me.
Sheldon: Did you remember to ask for the chicken with broccoli to be diced not shredded?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Even though the menu description specifies shredded?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Brown rice, not white?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Did you stop at the Korean grocery and get the good hot mustard.

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Did you pick up the low sodium soy sauce from the market?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Leonard: You’re welcome.
Sheldon: What took you so long?

Leonard: Just sit down and eat.
Sheldon: Fine. (Opens carton. Shows it to Leonard in disgust.)

Leonard: Alright, it’s shredded, what do you want me to do?
Sheldon: I want you to check before you accept the order.

Leonard: Sorry.
Sheldon: Were you distracted by the possibility that Koothrappali might have intercourse with Penny tonight?

Leonard: He’s not going to have intercourse with Penny.
Sheldon: Then there’s no excuse for this chicken. You know, this situation with Koothrapali brings to mind a story from my childhood.

Howard: Oh goody, more tales from the panhandle.
Sheldon: That’s Northwest Texas, I’m from East Texas, the Gulf region, home to many Vietnamese shrimpers.

Leonard: Do the shrimpers feature in your story?
Sheldon: No. Anyway, when I was eight, a Montgomery-Ward delivery van ran over our cat, Lucky.

Howard: Lucky?
Sheldon: Yes, Lucky.

Howard: Okay, dead cat named Lucky, continue.
Sheldon: While others mourned Lucky, I realised his untimely demise provided me with the opportunity to replace him with something more suited to my pet needs. A faithful companion that I could snuggle with at night, and yet would be capable of killing upon telepathic command.

Howard: So, not a puppy?
Sheldon: Please, no, nothing so pedestrian. I wanted a griffin.

Leonard: A griffin?
Sheldon: Yes, half eagle, half lion.

Leonard: And mythological.
Sheldon: Irrelevant. See, I was studying recombinant DNA technology and I was confident I could create one, but my parents were unwilling to secure the necessary eagle eggs and lion semen. Course my sister got swimming lessons when she wanted them.

Howard: Sheldon, not that we don’t all enjoy a good lion semen story, what’s your point.
Sheldon: My point is, if Koothrappali is moving on to a new life of shallow, undeserved fame, perhaps this is an opportunity to create a better cohort.

Leonard: You want to breed a new friend?
Sheldon: That’s one option, but who has the time? But consider this, the Japanese, they’re doing some wonderful work with artificial intelligence, now, you combine that with some animatronics from the imagineers over at Disney, next thing you know, we’re playing Halo with a multi-lingual Abraham Lincoln.

Leonard: That may well be, but the fact is, it wouldn’t kill us to meet some new people.
Sheldon: Uh, for the record, it could kill us to meet new people. They could be murderers, or the carriers of unusual pathogens, and I’m not insane, my mother had me tested.

Howard: And he should have a lot of money, and live in a cool place down by the beach where we could throw parties.
Sheldon: He should share our love of technology.

Leonard: Oh, good God.
Sheldon: In short, anyone who told you that you would someday be able to make any significant contribution to physics played a cruel trick on you, a cruel trick indeed. Any questions? Of course not. I weep for the future of science. Now if you’ll excuse me, the latest issue of Batman is out. Come, Leonard.

Leslie: So, dumbass, I heard you made a grad student throw up last night.
Sheldon: The truth can indeed be a finger down the throat of those unprepared to hear it. But why should I cater to second-rate minds?

Leslie: Because first-rate minds call you “dumbass”?
Sheldon: Oh, yeah? Well… you’re a mean person.

Girl (arriving): Excuse me, Dr. Cooper, I’m Ramona Nowitzki, I was at your talk last night. I think you’re just brilliant.
Sheldon: That is the prevailing opinion.

Ramona: Ew. Dr. Cooper, I’ve read everything you’ve published. I especially liked your paper on grand unification using string-network condensates and was wondering how you determined that three-dimensional string-nets provided a unified picture of fermions and gauge bosons?
Sheldon: Amazing, an intelligent labradoodle.

Howard: Woof.
Sheldon: The fact is I’m quite close to a breakthrough in showing how neutrinos emerge from a string-net condensate.

Ramona: Oh, my God, that would change the way we view the entire physical universe.
Sheldon: It’s what I do.

Ramona: Again, ew. You know, I’d love to hear more about how you intend to add neutrinos. Could we get a cup of coffee sometime?
Sheldon: I don’t drink coffee.

Ramona: Well, it doesn’t have to be coffee. How about dinner?
Sheldon: I do eat dinner.

Ramona: Great. I know a terrific little Italian place.
Sheldon: I never eat in strange restaurants. One runs the risk of non-standard cutlery.

Leonard: Sheldon lives in fear of the three-tined fork.
Sheldon: Three tines is not a fork, three tines is a trident. Forks are for eating, tridents are for ruling the seven seas.

Ramona: What if I brought food to your place?
Sheldon: That would be acceptable. On Mondays, I eat Thai food. Mee krob and chicken sate with extra peanut sauce from Siam Palace.

Ramona: You got it. I already have your address.
Sheldon: What a nice girl.

Howard: Sheldon, do you have any idea what just happened?
Sheldon: Yes. Apparently I’m getting a free dinner.

Leonard: Uh-huh. The viewing area’s right over there. Sheldon, your girl… date… person… Ramona’s here.
Sheldon: Oh, hello.

Ramona: Oh, sorry I’m late. I just got so caught up reading the draft of your latest paper.
Sheldon: Did you enjoy the humorous footnote where I illustrate mirror-symmetry by likening it to the Flash playing tennis with himself?

Ramona: So funny. But the idea that you might be able to incorporate gravity, I have to tell you, I found it physically exhilarating.
Sheldon: My hypotheses tend to have that effect.

Leonard: Hey, aren’t you having breakfast?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Are you experimenting with nutritional suppositories again?
Sheldon: Not in these pants.

Leonard: So, how’d it go with Ramona last night?
Sheldon: Oh, great. She’s smart, insightful and she has a very unique way of, you know, revering me.

Ramona (arriving): Here’s your spinach mushroom omelette .
Sheldon: Thank you. Did anyone touch it?

Ramona: Gloves were worn by everyone involved. I was vigilant.
Sheldon: Ramona pointed out that I’ve been wasting 20 minutes a day standing on cafeteria lines.

Ramona: Time which would be better spent tackling the great physics problems of our day.
Sheldon: You don’t tackle the big issues, Ramona. You fence with them. En garde. Riposte.

Ramona: There won’t be any room until they get rid of the permanent Leslie Winkle exhibit.
Sheldon: Oh, good one.

Ramona: So have you worked out the neutrino issue?
Sheldon: Well, to paraphrase Mozart, all the subatomic particles are there, I just have to put them in the right order.

Ramona: You’re so witty.
Sheldon: Aren’t I?

Ramona: Dr. Cooper is working.
Sheldon: Yes, I’m close to a breakthrough. Ooh, it tickles

Leonard: Yeah, I can see that. Sheldon, Halo night, Koothrappali’s. You coming?
Sheldon: Oh, yes, it’s Halo night. Let me just dry my tootsies.

Ramona: You’re not going to Halo night.
Sheldon: Yes, I am. It’s Wednesday. Wednesday’s Halo night.</i>

unconditional dedication of our entire lives”?
Sheldon: He did.

Ramona: And who was that great man?
Sheldon: Me. Sorry, Leonard.

Leonard: Seriously? You’re not coming?
Sheldon: You heard her. How can I argue with me?

Ramona: Dr. Cooper, I have to tell you, your friends are holding you back.
Sheldon: I prefer to think of it as I’m pulling them forward.

Ramona: Halo night? A man with your intellectual gifts doesn’t waste an evening playing video games.
Sheldon: He does on Wednesdays.

Ramona: Not if he wants a Nobel Prize.
Sheldon: He does want that. Does a man with my intellectual gifts play paintball on weekends?

Ramona: What do you think?
Sheldon: Drat.

Ramona: Now shall we get back to work?
Sheldon: I suppose. Battlestar Galactica comes on tonight. (Pause) I guess I can wait for the DVD. (Pause) And then never ever watch it.

Penny: Sheldon, honey, I’ve told you, it’s a small apartment, you only have to knock one time.
Sheldon: Please, please, I don’t have a lot of time. Look, Ramona finally dozed off, and I need you to help me get rid of her.

Penny: Get rid of her how?
Sheldon: I don’t know, but apparently I’m in some kind of relationship, and you seem to be an expert at ending them.

Penny: Excuse me?
Sheldon: I see man after man leaving this apartment never to return.

Ramona (off): Dr. Cooper?!
Sheldon: Hide me.

Penny: Hide you?
Sheldon: I formally request sanctuary.

Ramona: Why aren’t you working?
Sheldon: Um… she distracted me. I told you, Penny, I don’t have time for your nonsense, I have important things to do.

Leonard: Sheldon? (Pause, then more tapping) What are you doing?!
Sheldon: It’s Morse code.

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: So we can communicate through the wall.

Leonard: We are communicating through the wall.
Sheldon: Yes, but the communication is not encrypted.

Leonard: I don’t know Morse code.
Sheldon: It’s very simple. This is A (knock knock) this is B (knock knock-knock-knock) this is C…

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m not going to learn Morse code at three o’clock in the morning!
Sheldon: All right.

Leonard: Don’t come in here, don’t come in here, don’t come in here, don’t (Sheldon enters) Aw! What’s going on?
Sheldon: Shh! Ramona’s sleeping on the couch.

Leonard: I know. When is she going home?
Sheldon: Never, that’s the problem. I need your help.

Leonard: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: I’m invoking the Skynet clause of our friendship agreement.

Leonard: That only applies if you need me to help you destroy an artificial intelligence you created that’s taking over the Earth.
Sheldon: Come on! Don’t nitpick!

Leonard: Good night.
Sheldon: Shh. All right, I’m invoking our bodysnatchers clause.

Leonard: The bodysnatchers clause requires me to help you destroy someone we know who’s been replaced with an alien pod.
Sheldon: Yes. She’s in the living room. Go, I’ll wait here.

Ramona (entering): Sheldon, what are you doing out of bed?
Sheldon: Now! Do it!

Ramona: You know you need your sleep in order for your cognitive processing to perform at optimum levels. Now come on.
Sheldon: Godzilla clause?

Leonard: Not unless she destroys Tokyo.
Sheldon: Rats.

Ramona: It’s unbelievable! It’s paradigm-altering!
Sheldon: And I could not have done it without you.

Ramona: Oh, please, I just offered a little encouragement.
Sheldon: It was a lot more than that. You helped me work out the masses of all the fermions, and you pumiced my hammer toe. How can I ever repay you?

Ramona: Well, would you consider naming it the Cooper-Nowitzki Theorem?
Sheldon: Who’s Nowitzki?

Ramona: I’m Nowitzki.
Sheldon: Oh, you want me to share credit?

Ramona: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: Get out!

Girl: Excuse me, Dr. Cooper, I’m Kathy O’Brien. I just finished reading your paper reconciling the black hole information paradox with your theory of string-network condensates, and it just took my breath away.
Sheldon: Maybe when I publish it, I’ll include an inhaler.

Kathy: Would you possibly have any time for me to pick your brain?
Sheldon: Let’s see, today’s Thursday. Thursday nights, I eat pizza from Giacomo’s. Sausage, mushrooms, light olives.

Kathy: Great. I’ll bring it to your place. I have the address.
Sheldon: What a nice girl.

Leonard: Sheldon, do you see what just happened here?
Sheldon: Yes, I’m getting a free pizza. I’m on a roll.

Scene: The living room. The guys are eating.
Sheldon: More Pad Thai, please.

Raj: You might want to slow down a bit, buddy.
Sheldon: Just one more bite.

Leonard: Sheldon? Sheldon, are you okay?
Sheldon: I’m just so… full.

Scene: The apartment. The guys are playing Boggle. There is a Klingon dictionary on the table.
Sheldon: Time. Alright Klingons, pencils down.

Raj: Judge’s ruling?
Sheldon: Bilurrrbe.

Penny (entering): Hey, guys, I need to use your TV.
Sheldon: What’s wrong with your TV?

Penny: You sound just like the cable company. All right, so, shh, Tyra Banks is about to kick someone off  America’s Next Top Model.
Sheldon: Excuse me, Penny, but we’re…

Leonard: No, no, don’t tell her.
Sheldon: …playing Klingon Boggle.

Howard: What do you mean, aw? Like she didn’t know we were nerds?
Sheldon: All right, if you must watch, then mute it with closed captions, please.

Penny: Fine.
Sheldon: All right, Boggle warriors, kapla’!

Leonard: They’re gorgeous.
Sheldon: Oh! Worf, nice! Too bad that’s a proper noun.

Leonard: Yeah, and they can all move in with you and your mother, the current Mrs. Wolowitz.
Sheldon: Is qochbe’ spelled with a (gargling) or a (guttural grunt)?

Penny: To pay my cable bill.
Sheldon: All right, pencils down! I have lokh, makh, and cherrrkh. Anybody got those?

Howard: Isn’t it obvious? Every week, they kick out a beautiful girl, making her feel unwanted and without self-esteem, a.k.a. the future Mrs. Howard Wolowitz.
Sheldon: Is my hamburger medium well?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Dill slices, not sweet?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Individual relish packets?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Onion rings?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Extra breading?

Leonard: I asked.
Sheldon: What did they say?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Did you protest?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Vociferously?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Well, then what took you so long?

Penny: Thank you.
Sheldon: Oh, do we have to suffer through this transparently manipulative pseudo-reality again?

All: Yes.
Sheldon: You and I have a standing TV schedule which is the result of extensive debate and compromise. Any alterations except for breaking news have to be pre-approved at the weekly roommate meeting.

Leonard: Put it on the agenda.
Sheldon: But you have to make a motion to put it on agenda.

Leonard: Oh, I’ll make a motion, but you’re not going to like it.
Sheldon: Fine. Mock Parliamentary procedure. At least put it on mute.

Howard: Okay, here he comes, deny, deny, people, wall of silence.
Sheldon: Who touched my…

All: Penny! Penny did it.
Sheldon: Why would you do that?

Penny: I don’t know. I was hungry? What’s the big deal?
Sheldon: The big deal is that nobody touches food on my plate.

Penny: All right. Look, I didn’t know, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: Well, I’m sorry, but that is your second strike.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: You have two strikes. Three strikes and you’re out. It’s a sports metaphor.

Penny: A sports metaphor?
Sheldon: Yes, baseball.

Penny: All right, yeah, I’ll play along. What was my first strike?
Sheldon: March 18th. You violated my rule about forwarding email humour.

Penny: I did?
Sheldon: The photo of the cat who wants to “has cheezburger”?

Penny: Oh, come on, everybody loves LOLcats. They’re cute and they can’t spell ’cause they’re cats.
Sheldon: I trusted you with my email address, and you betrayed that trust by sending me Internet banality, strike one. Touching my food, strike two.

Penny: Come on, I touched one onion ring.
Sheldon: And then you put it back, compromising the integrity of all the other onion rings.

Penny: Oh, honey, the buses don’t go where you live, do they?
Sheldon: Look, Penny, I wish I could be more lenient with you, but since you’ve become a permanent member of our social group I have to hold you to the same standards as everybody else.

Penny: Well, what a thrill.
Sheldon: You’re sitting in my spot.

Penny: Oh, jeez, you’ve got to be kidding me.
Sheldon: Leonard, she’s in my spot.

Penny: I don’t care. I’m taking a stand. Metaphorically.
Sheldon: All right, that’s it. Strike three.

Howard: That’s what they said to Neil Armstrong about the moon.
Sheldon: No one said anything of the kind to Neil Armstrong, the entire nation dedicated a decade of effort and treasure to put a man on the moon.

Penny: Shrimp Caesar salad with no almonds for the highly allergic kosher-only-on-the-high-holidays Howard, and for our suddenly back on the Hindu wagon Raj, meatlover’s pizza, no meat. Coming right up.
Sheldon: Wait. Excuse me. You forgot my barbecue bacon cheeseburger, barbecue sauce, bacon and cheese on the side.

Penny: Oh, I didn’t tell you? You’re banished from the Cheesecake Factory.
Sheldon: Why?

Penny: Well, you have three strikes. One, coming in. Two, sitting down. And three, I don’t like your attitude.
Sheldon: You can’t do that. Not only is it a violation of California state law, it flies directly in the face of Cheesecake Factory policy.

Penny: There you go, quesadilla, salad, there’s your pizza, and thanks to Sheldon’s heated discussion with my manager one barbecue bacon cheeseburger, barbecue sauce, bacon and cheese on the side.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Scene: The hallway. Sheldon is backing out of the apartment. Penny is waiting outside.
Sheldon: Oh! Hello.

Penny: Time to do your laundry, huh?
Sheldon: It’s Saturday night. Saturday is laundry night.

Penny: I know. Every Saturday at 8:15, easy to anticipate.
Sheldon: What are you implying?

Penny: Oh, no, are all the machines taken? What are you gonna do?
Sheldon: No problem, I’ll just do my laundry another night.

Penny: Another night? Well, I guess you can try, but deep inside your heart you’ll know that laundry night is always Saturday night.
Sheldon: Woman, you are playing with forces beyond your ken.

Penny (Knock, knock, knock): Sheldon (knock, knock, knock) Sheldon (knock, knock, knock) Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yes?

Penny: Where are my clothes?
Sheldon: Your clothes?

Penny: Yes, I left them in the washers and when I went down to get them, they were gone.
Sheldon: Really? Despite the sign that says “Do not leave laundry unattended”?

Penny: Sheldon, where are my clothes?
Sheldon: You know, I do recall seeing some female undergarments. Where was that? Oh, yes, earlier this evening I happened to gaze out the window and a brassiere caught my eye. Do those look familiar?

Penny: How the hell did you get them up on that telephone wire?
Sheldon: When you understand the laws of physics, Penny, anything is possible. And may I add, mwah-ha-ha!

Penny: Get them down.
Sheldon: Apologize.

Penny: Never.
Sheldon: Well, then may I suggest you get a very long stick and play panty pinata.

Penny: Look, wait, Sheldon, this has gotten out of hand, okay? I’ve done some stupid things, you’ve done some stupid things, how about we just call it even and move on with our lives?
Sheldon: I’ve done no stupid things.

Penny: Look, you’ve got to meet me halfway here.
Sheldon: I am meeting you halfway, I’m willing to concede that you’ve done some stupid things.

Leonard: Oh, not junior rodeo. What did you do?
Sheldon: I had no choice, Leonard, she ruined laundry night.

Leonard (looking out of window): A-a-a-aw!
Sheldon: Mwah-ha-ha.

Leonard (into phone, which has just rung): Hello. Oh, hi. Yeah, hold on a second. I’ll get him. Sheldon, it’s for you.
Sheldon: Who is it?

Leonard: Your mother.
Sheldon: Oh, good. Hi, Mom. How are you? But, Mom, she keeps sitting in my spot. And, and she touched my food. Okay, yes, I took her clothes, but she started it. No, that’s not fair. Why should I have to apologize? Yeah, I really don’t think this is the kind of thing Jesus concerns himself with. No, you’re right, I don’t really know what Jesus thinks about. All right, good-bye. Did you tell on me?

Scene: Outside Penny’s door.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny… (door opens) I am very, very sorry for what I have done. Here’s your laundry, I rescind your strikes and you are no longer banished.

Penny: Can I sit wherever I want? No, no, never mind, never mind, that’s, that’s not important. Sheldon, this was big of you. Thank you. I really appreciate it.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Penny: Good night, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Penny.

Penny: Yes?
Sheldon: Well played.

Penny: Thank you.
Sheldon: Just remember: with great power comes great responsibility.

Scene: The lobby. 
Sheldon: Penny, hello.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: What is shaking?

Penny: I’m sorry?
Sheldon: It’s colloquial, a conversation opener. So, do you find the weather satisfying? Are you currently sharing in the triumph of some local sports team?

Penny: What’s wrong with you? you’re freaking me out.
Sheldon: I’m striking up a casual conversation with you. S’u’up?

Penny: Please don’t do that.
Sheldon: All right, But I’m given to understand that when you have something awkward to discuss with someone, it’s more palatable to preface it with banal chit chat.

Penny: So, this wasn’t the awkward part?
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Oh, all right. S’u’up?
Sheldon: Oh, good, I used that right. Anyway, you’re aware that Leonard has entered into a new romantic relationship which includes a sexual component?

Penny: Okay, feeling the awkward now.
Sheldon: Her name is Dr. Stephanie Barnett and she is a highly distinguished surgical resident at Freemont Memorial.

Penny: Yeah, Leonard told me.
Sheldon: Good. What he may have left out is how important this relationship is to me.

Penny: To you?
Sheldon: Yes, see, of the handful of women Leonard’s been involved with, she’s the only one I have ever found tolerable.

Penny: Well, what about me?
Sheldon: The statement stands for itself.

Penny: Well, aren’t you sweet?
Sheldon: Anyway, should you have any interaction with her, it would be most helpful that she not see you as a sexual rival.

Penny: Yeah, I think she’s pretty safe.
Sheldon: You say that now, but consider the following scenario, you’re sitting in your apartment, it’s late, you’re alone, your hypothalamus is swimming in a soup of estrogen and progesterone and suddenly even Leonard seems like a viable sexual candidate, or a, uh, hookup as it’s referred to by today’s urban youth.

Penny: Really?
Sheldon: Yes. Now, should that happen, I would ask you to find some way to suppress your libido.

Penny: I could think about you.
Sheldon: Fine, whatever works.

Penny: Always nice talking to you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Uh, peace out!

 
Sheldon: Well, this is very pleasant.

Leonard: I’m glad you’re enjoying yourself.
Sheldon: And you said there’d never be enough pasta for the three of us.

Leonard: I stand corrected.
Sheldon: You know, Italian housewives have a rule of thumb. A handful of dry pasta about an inch in diameter is sufficient for each person as it doubles in volume when cooked.

Steph: That’s very interesting.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Leonard: She doesn’t mean it. She’s just being nice.
Sheldon: Well, Stephanie, since Leonard seems to be dropping the conversational ball, I guess I’ll just have to pick it up. Have you ever witnessed a violent crime?

Steph: No.
Sheldon: Good. What’s your favourite fruit?

Steph: Ih-uh, strawberries.
Sheldon: Hmm, technically not a fruit, but all right. Where did you do your medical internship?

Steph: Uh, Lawrence Memorial in Galveston, Texas.
Sheldon: Really? That’s where I was born!

Steph: You’re kidding!
Sheldon: I spent so much of my childhood at that hospital. When I was 12, I got to ride there in a helicopter.

Steph: Why, what-what-what happened?
Sheldon: Radiation burns. A little mishap while I was building my own cat scanner.

Steph: I’m sorry, you tried to build your own cat scanner?
Sheldon: No, I didn’t try, I succeeded. In fact, I was briefly able to see the inside of my sister’s guinea pig, Snowball, before he caught fire. It led to an interesting expression in our house, not a snowball’s chance in a cat scanner.

Leonard: Uh, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Excuse me. When I come back, just for fun, the subject will be alternative history. Specifically, how would the civil war have gone differently if Lincoln had been a robot sent from the future? (To Leonard) Look at that, there’s even pasta left over.

Leonard: Do you understand that this was supposed to be a date?
Sheldon: I do. Do you? Because frankly, you’ve been in a foul mood since I sat down.

Leonard: Okay, here’s my question, why did you sit down?
Sheldon: To help. Look, if you fail at this relationship, and history suggests you will, then we risk losing the medical officer that our landing party has always needed.

Leonard: What landing party?
Sheldon: You’re Kirk, I’m Spock, Wolowitz is Scotty, Koothrappali is the guy who always gets killed, and now we’ve got McCoy.

Steph: Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hi, Stephanie. I’m sorry I’m late, but your companion left the most indecipherable invitation.

Leonard: What invitation?
Sheldon: We’re going to the movies. What movie? What theatre? What time? If you were trying to make it impossible to locate you, you couldn’t have done a better job.

Leonard: Oh, clearly I could have.
Sheldon: It took me nearly 20 minutes to go through the browser history on your computer to see what movie times you looked up. Wait here, I’ll find us seats.

Steph: No, it’s fine. you know, he’s sweet.
Sheldon: My apologies, you’ve been sitting in it all along. Leonard, you want to slide over one?

Leonard: No, just sit here.
Sheldon: Oh, yeah, this is it.

Leonard: The blunt instrument that will be the focus of my murder trial?
Sheldon: This is Stephanie’s facebook page. Now, where it should say in a relationship, what does it say?

Leonard: Stephanie Barnett is single.
Sheldon: Yeah, furthermore, earlier this evening, she threw a digital sheep at some guy named Mike. Who’s Mike? Why does he get a digital sheep and not you?

Leonard: It’s just her facebook page and we’ve only been going out a couple of weeks.
Sheldon: You don’t see it, do you? We’re losing her.

Leonard: Okay, I’m going to make this very simple for you. You are not in this relationship, I am. Ergo, you have no say in anything that happens between me and Stephanie.
Sheldon: I’m afraid I can’t allow that. Pursuant to Starfleet General Order 104 Section A, you are deemed unfit and I hereby relieve you of your command.

Leonard: General Order 104, Section A does not apply in this situation.
Sheldon: Give me one good reason why not.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: This is banana bread.

Penny: This is a door knob.
Sheldon: It’s my understanding that an unsolicited gift of food can be a precursor to an impromptu invitation to come in and chat.

Penny: Sheldon, would you like to come in?
Sheldon: I suppose I could spare a few minutes. Were you robbed?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: How can you be sure?

Penny: Sheldon, what do you want?
Sheldon: I’m certain this will come as no surprise to you, but Leonard is failing in yet another relationship.

Penny: He’s having problems with Stephanie?
Sheldon: She’s sending virtual livestock to random men on the internet. If I have any hope of keeping them together, I need data. Specifically, I need to know exactly what Leonard did that caused you to pop an emotional cap in his buttocks.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Again, urban slang. In which, I believe I’m gaining remarkable fluency. So, what is the down and the low? And don’t worry, this is all entirely confidential, so, you feel free to include any and all shortcomings in the bedroom.

Penny: We never got to the bedroom.
Sheldon: Because?

Penny: Oh, okay, all right, you know what? I’ll tell you what happened. We were young, we were very much in love, but we could only communicate through a time-traveling mailbox at my lake house.
Sheldon: It’s not enough that you made me watch that movie, but now you mock me with it?

Scene: The university cafeteria.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, I have a question about dating and relationships.

Howard: I’ve been waiting for someone to have the talk with me.
Sheldon: More to the point, it’s about finding a way to keep Leonard and Stephanie together.

Howard: Oh, I don’t think you can.
Sheldon: Well, why not?

Howard: Based on the geometric progression, his relationship with Stephanie should have ended after 20 minutes.
Sheldon: Yes, I’m aware of the math, Y equals 27 days over 12 to the nth, the issue remains, how do we circumvent his inevitable rejection?

Howard: I’ll tell you what you shouldn’t do. Don’t spritz him with that body spray from the commercial where the women undress when they smell it, that doesn’t work at all, no matter how much you put on.
Sheldon: So, that’s all you’ve got? Apocalyptic genocide and go easy on the cologne?

Penny: Oh, thank you.
Sheldon: May I come in?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: I see. Apparently my earlier inquiry regarding you and Leonard crossed some sort of line. I apologize.

Penny: Well, thank you.
Sheldon: So, have you and I returned to a social equilibrium?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Great. New topic. Where are you in your menstrual cycle?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: I’ve been doing some research online, and apparently female primates, you know, uh, apes, chimpanzees, you, they find their mate more desirable when he’s being courted by another female. Now, this effect is intensified when the rival female is secreting the pheromones associated with ovulation. Which brings me back to my question, where are you in (Penny slams door). Clearly, I’m 14 days too early.

Steph: Leonard, you’re going to have to let this go. You had a little cheese dip, you farted, I thought it was cute.
Sheldon: Oh, hi Stephanie.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: I have a craving for white asparagus that apparently is destined to go unsatisfied.

Leonard: Excuse me. What the hell is wrong with you?
Sheldon: I’m helping you with Stephanie.

Leonard: By making constipated moose sounds?
Sheldon: When I fail to open this jar and you succeed it will establish you as the alpha male. You see, when a female witnesses an exhibition of physical domination she produces the hormone oxytocin. If the two of you then engage in intercourse this will create the biochemical reaction in the brain which lay people naively interpret as falling in love.

Leonard: Huh? Would it work if I just punched you in the face?
Sheldon: Yes, actually it would, but let’s see how the lid goes. I’m not strong enough, Leonard, you’ll have to do it.

Leonard: Oh, for god’s sakes.
Sheldon: Go ahead, it’s pre-loosened.

Leonard: No, no, no, I got it.
Sheldon: No, yeah, yeah, he’s got it, and that’s not surprising. This is something I long ago came to peace with in my role as the beta male. Open it. (Leonard tries again. Then taps jar on counter. Jar breaks.)

Leonard: No, I’m not. I’m bleeding.
Sheldon: Like a gladiator!

Leonard: Oh, okay, yeah, hang on a sec. (Throws up in sink)
Sheldon: FYI, I was defrosting a steak in there.

Scene: The hospital.
Sheldon: What a beautiful job Stephanie did. I might have gone with a mattress suture instead of a blanket stitch, but you can’t argue with her results. It’s a shame it won’t scar, the war wound is a time-honoured badge of masculinity.

Leonard: I can’t remember a time when you weren’t talking.
Sheldon: Just for the record, my efforts to establish you as the alpha male were not aided by you bursting into tears.

Leonard: I did not burst into tears, my eyes just got a little watery.
Sheldon: Watery?

Steph: Uh, no, I think that you probably need to rest.
Sheldon: She’s right, as long as you’re vomiting, coitus is contra-indicated.

Leonard: Thank you, Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: You’re welcome, Dr. Hofstadter.

Leonard (after Sheldon tuts): What?
Sheldon: Well, you seem like a perfectly pleasant person. I just can’t understand why women have such a hard time loving you.

Penny: Well, then who did?
Sheldon: I had no choice, he cried in front of her.

Leonard: You hacked my facebook account?
Sheldon: Oh, it’s hardly hacking when you use the same password for everything, Kal-el.

Leonard: Are you insane? Now she’s going to think I’m desperate. You’ve destroyed this relationship! And you want to know what the worst part is? You don’t even understand what you did wrong because you can’t conceive of something that you are not an expert in!
Sheldon: In which I am not an expert.

Leonard: Really? Oh, look at that, I have a girlfriend.
Sheldon: If I am permitted to speak again, Dr. Sheldon Cooper for the win.

Scene: The university cafeteria.
Sheldon: Your argument is lacking in all scientific merit. It is well established Superman cleans his uniform by flying into Earth’s yellow sun, which incinerates any contaminate matter and leaves the invulnerable Kryptonian fabric unharmed and daisy fresh.

Howard: What if he gets something Kryptonian on it?
Sheldon: Like what?

Howard: I don’t know. Kryptonian mustard.
Sheldon: I think we can safely assume that all Kryptonian condiments were destroyed when the planet Krypton exploded.

Howard: Yeah, what about Kryptonian pit stains?
Sheldon: Superman doesn’t sweat on Earth.

Raj: Booya.
Sheldon: Superman would have taken his uniform to a Kandorian dry cleaner before he left the Bottle.

Leonard: It’s David Underhill. So what?
Sheldon: So what? His observation of high-energy positrons has provided the first conclusive evidence for the existence of galactic dark matter.

Leonard: I have two words for you. The first is big, the other’s whoop.
Sheldon: It is a big whoop. It made almost all the work you’ve done since you’ve been here completely useless.

Howard: That doesn’t count. Do over! Do over!
Sheldon: There are no do-overs in Wii bowling.

Howard: There are always do-overs when my people play sports.
Sheldon: Where were you that’s more important than Wii bowling night?

Leonard: Actually, I was…
Sheldon: It’s a rhetorical question. There is nothing more important than Wii bowling night.

Leonard: Come on, it’s just a video game. And we suck at it.
Sheldon: Nice motivational speech from the team captain.

Leonard: No, we play Rock Band on our X-Box.
Sheldon: Nice motivational speech from our lead guitarist.

Penny (entering): Hey, Sheldon, are you and Leonard putting up a Christmas tree?
Sheldon: No, because we don’t celebrate the ancient pagan festival of Saturnalia.

Howard: Gather round, kids, it’s time for Sheldon’s beloved Christmas special.
Sheldon: In the pre-Christian era, as the winter solstice approached and the plants died, pagans brought evergreen boughs into their homes as an act of sympathetic magic, intended to guard the life essences of the plants until spring. This custom was later appropriated by Northern Europeans and eventually it becomes the so-called Christmas tree.

Penny: Okay, well, thank you for that, but I got you and Leonard a few silly neighbour gifts, so I’ll just put them under my tree.
Sheldon: Wait! You bought me a present?

Penny: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: Why would you do such a thing?

Penny: I don’t know. ‘Cause it’s Christmas?
Sheldon: Oh, Penny. I know you think you’re being generous, but the foundation of gift-giving is reciprocity. You haven’t given me a gift, you’ve given me an obligation.

Penny: Now, honey, it’s okay.You don’t have to get me anything in return.
Sheldon: Of course I do. The essence of the custom is that I now have to go out and purchase for you a gift of commensurate value and representing the same perceived level of friendship as that represented by the gift you’ve given me. It’s no wonder suicide rates skyrocket this time of year.

Penny: Okay, you know what? Forget it. I’m not giving you a present.
Sheldon: No, it’s too late. I see it. That elf sticker says to Sheldon. The die has been cast, the moving finger has writ, Hannibal has crossed the Alps.

Penny: Sheldon, I am very, very sorry.
Sheldon: No. No, I brought this on myself by being such an endearing and important part of your life. I’m going to need a ride to the mall.

Leonard: See ya. ‘Bye, Penny. Have fun. (Bangs head on door. Sheldon opens it.)
Sheldon: Yes? (Leonard falls through) Did you forget your key?

 
Sheldon: I don’t see anything in here a woman would want.

Raj: Sheldon, if you don’t like this stuff, let’s just go next door and build her a bear.
Sheldon: I told you before, bears are terrifying.

Howard: Come on, bath stuff, it’s perfect! You got a scented candle, a cleansing buff, spearmint and green tea scented bath oil, promotes relaxation.
Sheldon: That presupposes Penny is tense.

Howard: Excuse me, we’re ready.
Sheldon: No, we’re not. Let’s say for a moment that I accept the bath item gift hypothesis, I now lay the following conundrum at your feet, which size?

Howard: This one. Let’s go.
Sheldon: You put no thought into that.

Howard: I’m sorry. Uh, this one. Let’s go!
Sheldon: I have insufficient data to proceed. Excuse me, miss?

Assistant: Yes?
Sheldon: If I were to give you this gift basket, based on that action alone and no other data, infer and describe the hypothetical relationship that exists between us.

Assistant: Excuse me?
Sheldon: Here. Now, are we friends? Colleagues? Lovers? Are you my grandmother?

 
Sheldon: Mmm, great news, Leonard, I’ve solved my Penny gift dilemma.

Leonard: Yippee.
Sheldon: You see, the danger was that I might under or over-reciprocate, but I have devised a foolproof plan. See, I will open her gift to me first and then excuse myself, feigning digestive distress.

Leonard: Brilliant.
Sheldon: It is, isn’t it? Is it okay if I hide them in your room? The smell makes me nauseated.

Leonard: Do whatever you want.
Sheldon: Thank you, that’s very gracious.      Gentlemen.

Leonard: Very good, thanks for asking. Come on in.
Sheldon: Ah, good, Penny, you’re here to exchange gifts. You’ll be pleased to know I’m prepared for whatever you have to offer.

Penny: Okay, here.
Sheldon: I should note I’m having some digestive distress, so, if I excuse myself abruptly, don’t be alarmed. Oh, a napkin.

Penny: Turn it over.
Sheldon: To Sheldon, live long and prosper. Leonard Nimoy.

Penny: Yeah, he came into the restaurant. Sorry the napkin’s dirty. He wiped his mouth with it.
Sheldon: I possess the DNA of Leonard Nimoy?!

Penny: Well, yeah, yeah, I guess. But look, he signed it.
Sheldon: Do you realize what this means? All I need is a healthy ovum and I can grow my own Leonard Nimoy!

Penny: Okay, all I’m giving you is the napkin, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Be right back.

Penny: Sheldon! What did you do?!
Sheldon: I know! It’s not enough, is it? Here.

Steph: I don’t see anything at all, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Well, you’re the doctor, but I am constantly hearing this annoying sound.

Leonard: Me, too.
Sheldon: Is it a high-frequency whistle?

Steph: Yup, there’s no inflammation at all, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Then it must be a tumour.

Leonard: Maybe it’s a lingering bacterial infection from all those childhood toilet swirlies.
Sheldon: Is that possible? I used to get those all the time. Even in church.

Leonard: Okay, I’ll be right in.
Sheldon: It’s not enough that she mocks me, but that isn’t even the correct procedure for a cootie shot.

Leonard: Do you understand that Stephanie’s not here to treat your imaginary ailments?
Sheldon: How is it imaginary that I keep hearing an octave above Middle C? Is that imaginary? I don’t think so.

Leonard: Good night.
Sheldon: Leonard, there’s one more thing. Under Article One, Section Three of our Roommate Agreement, I’m calling an emergency meeting.

Leonard: No, you’re not.
Sheldon: Leonard moves the meeting not occur. Is there a second? None heard, the motion fails. I’d like to begin the meeting by congratulating you on the progress in your relationship with Dr. Stephanie.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: That being said, we have to discuss the implementation of the agreed upon “cohabitation” rider which has been activated now that the two of you are living together.

Leonard: We’re not living together.
Sheldon: I beg to disagree. “A girlfriend shall be deemed quote living with un-quote Leonard when she has stayed over for A, ten consecutive nights or B, more than nine nights in three week period or C: all the weekends of a given month plus three weeknights.

Leonard: That’s absurd.
Sheldon: You initialed it. See? L.H., L.H., L.H.

Leonard: Wait, I only initialed it because I never thought it would happen! I initialed another clause naming you my sidekick in case I get superpowers.
Sheldon: Hmm, yes, you did. Now, to review the following provisions are hereby activated. In the refrigerator, as opposed to us having two separate shelves and one communal shelf, the three of us now get individual shelves and the door becomes communal. Next, apartment vacuuming shall be increased from two to three times a week to accommodate the increased accumulation of dead skin cells. Third,the bathroom schedule. Now, I’m given to understand women have different needs, so, we’ll have to discuss that.

Leonard: I’m going to bed.
Sheldon: At least take this with you. Look, and have Stephanie initial here, here, here, here and here. This states that she does not now nor does she intend to play a percussive or brass instrument. Sure it sounds like a tumor pressing on the auditory nerve.

Leonard: No, absolutely not.
Sheldon: It’s not a big deal. We have latex gloves.

Steph: Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Good morning, Dr. Stephanie. I trust Leonard satisfied you sexually last night.

Leonard: Oh come on! Sheldon, we don’t ask questions like that.
Sheldon: I heard you ask it over and over. How is it inappropriate for me to ask it once?

Steph: He did very nicely.
Sheldon: See? She’s not offended. And now you finally have an answer.

Leonard: She’s heard about you because we’re, you know, involved and you haven’t heard about her because… I never slept with her, I swear!
Sheldon: In Leonard’s defence, it wasn’t for lack of trying.

Leonard: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re welcome, Leonard.

Leonard: Look, I’m just saying, um, Penny is one of our many neighbours, you know, and in our building, neighbours come and go, it’s very casual, no dress code. In fact, some mornings I’ll just mosey down to the third floor in my pyjamas and have cereal with Mrs. Vartabedian.
Sheldon: Really? I have never once been invited to have cereal with Mrs. Vartabedian.

Steph: Bye.
Sheldon: What could I possibly have done to offend Mrs. Vartabedian?

Penny: You know, she seems very nice.
Sheldon: Oh, she is. She’s terrific, and she’s proving to be a valuable roommate.

Penny: Roommate? You guys are living together?
Sheldon: Like hippies.

Leonard: We’re not living together.
Sheldon: Do I have to pull out the paperwork again?

Steph: Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: Hang on. 130 over 80. A little high. We can attribute that to the stress of sneaking past the security desk.

Steph: Where did you get the stethoscope and the blood pressure cuff?
Sheldon: My aunt Marion gave them to me for my 12th birthday. She thought if I failed at theoretical physics that I should have a trade to fall back on. And by the way, the blood pressure cuff is called a sphygmomanometer.

Steph: Thank you.
Sheldon: Didn’t they teach you that in medical school?

Steph: I’m kinda busy here, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I understand. All I need is for you to authorize these tests.

Steph: A cardiac stress test, a full body MRI, an electromyogram, a CBC, baseline glucose, upper GI?
Sheldon: Oh, and an exploratory laparoscopy. Last time I had hiccups, it felt like my diaphragm was just going through the motions.

Steph: Go home, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Can I at least have the upper GI? I already drank the barium!

Steph: Oh, no.
Sheldon: Wha??

Steph: You were right. Your larynx is terribly inflamed. I mean, I’ve never seen anything like it.
Sheldon: I knew it! What do I do?

Steph: You’re going to need to stop talking immediately.
Sheldon: For how…

Howard: Featuring one articulated razor-sharp killing saw, one polycarbonate grinding and flipping wheel, steel armour plate exoskeleton top and bottom, and enough horsepower to drive a 110 pounds of mechanized death from zero to holy crap in 4.8 seconds.
Sheldon: Is it wrong to say I love our killer robot?

Raj: Okay. Ooh, perhaps today is the day we finally find out what’s inside the Magic Eight Ball.
Sheldon: Did it when I was four. It’s an icosahedral dye floating in tinted blue water.

Leonard: How about the toaster oven?
Sheldon: What did the toaster oven ever do to you?

Howard: Gentlemen, goggles.
Sheldon: Yeah, this is an auspicious moment. Yeah, like Robert Oppenheimer or Neil Armstrong, we need the appropriate words to mark this historic scientific event.

Penny: Yeah, well, it almost killed me.
Sheldon: If it wanted to kill you, you’d be dead.

Penny: So, who exactly does it want to kill?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, are you unaware of the upcoming Southern California Robot Fighting League Round Robin Invitational?

Penny: Look, normally I can just ignore you. I mean, I get it, you’re a little peculiar. You know, like Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yeah, excuse me, Penny, but in this room, you’re the one who’s peculiar.

Leonard: Yes, we did, Kripke.
Sheldon: His name is Monte.

Leonard: Come on, is that really necessary?
Sheldon: Leonard, I believe it is. This is trash talk, and trash talk is a traditional component in all sporting events. Kripke, your robot is inferior and it will be defeated by ours because ours exceeds yours in both design and execution. Also, I’m given to understand that your mother is overweight.

Raj: Oh, snap.
Sheldon: Now, of course, if that is the result of a glandular condition and not sloth and gluttony, I withdraw that comment.

Raj: What difference does it make? Fat is fat.
Sheldon: There are boundaries.

Kripke: Tell you what, forget the S.C.aw.F.L.aw.aw.I., let’s settle this woboto a woboto.
Sheldon: What do you mean?

Kripke: There’s no guawantee we’ve gotta go against each other in the Wound Wobin, so let’s thwow down. You know, unless you’re afwaid.
Sheldon: We accept your challenge. Name a time and place.

Kripke: Tomowow, thwee o’clock, the kinetics wab.
Sheldon: Make it so.

Leonard: Sheldon, we have to call it off.
Sheldon: We don’t have that option, we’ve accepted the challenge. We can’t run away from a fight.

Leonard: Oh, please, we’ve spent our whole lives running away from fights. Personally, I can squeeze through a hole in a fence half my size.
Sheldon: Impressive as that may be, Monte is not us. Monte has no fear.

Raj: Sheldon, did we all not just watch the same video? Kripke’s robot just had angry sex with a mid-sized automobile.
Sheldon: You are overlooking the fact that we now know what we’re up against and we can modify Monte so that he’s prepared.

Leonard: Not yet.
Sheldon: Have faith, gentlemen. We don’t need Wolowitz, engineering is merely the slow younger brother of physics. Watch and learn. Do either of you know how to open the toolbox?

Leonard: Neat. Good work. Sheldon, we’ve got to call this off.
Sheldon: No, Leonard. For years, merciless thugs like Kripke have made my life a series of painful noogies and humiliating wedgies and the insensitively named Indian burns. That stops now.

Raj: But, Sheldon, we don’t have a chance. The only improvement you were able to make on the robot was to put fresh batteries in the remote.
Sheldon: What you fail to realize is Kripke suffers from a fatal flaw, overconfidence from his robot’s massive size and its overwhelming power.

Raj: That’s not overconfidence, that’s observation.
Sheldon: Trust me, Kripke will fall easy prey to my psychological warfare. Observe. Kripke! I would ask if your robot is prepared to meet its maker, but as you are its maker, clearly the two of you have met.

Kripke: Are you cwazy? This is a stweet fight, the stweet has no rules.
Sheldon: He’s right, Leonard. The paradigm is to the death.

Kripke: I will, however, give you the opportunity to concede my supewiowity now and offer me your wobot as the spoils of war.
Sheldon: Never. I’d rather see Monte dead than in your hands.

Kripke: That could be easily awanged. Weady, set, go?
Sheldon: Do it.

Raj: Come on, Sheldon, you got this.
Sheldon: Indeed. We are prepared for anything he can throw at us. (A flame begins to jet out of Kripke’s robot.) That’s new.

Leonard: Go, go, go, go!
Sheldon: Don’t hurt us, don’t hurt us,

Leonard: Well, so much for making up for the emotional wounds of childhood.
Sheldon: I did this. Monte was killed by my hubris and my pride. No matter what anybody says, this is my fault.

Howard: Yeah. They sucker punch you when your eyes are closed.
Sheldon: So what do you think, Howard? It’s not that bad, right?

Howard: Oh, no. A little electrical tape, some solder. Are you insane? I’ve seen space probes that crashed into the desert that were in better shape than this.
Sheldon: You’re right. Monte’s gone. We’ll bury him in the morning. A simple ceremony. I’ll speak. Leonard, you’ll play your cello.

Penny: Sheldon, honey, aren’t you getting a little carried away? I mean, it’s just a toy robot.
Sheldon: Just a toy robot?

Raj: Mmm, gentlemen, I put it to you, the worst tapioca pudding is better than the best pudding of any other flavour.
Sheldon: First off, that is axiomatically wrong, because the best pudding is chocolate. Secondly, the organic structure of tapioca makes it a jiggling bowl of potential death. It is extracted from the plant…

Leonard: Ah, no kidding! A Fu Man Chu? A handlebar pencil?
Sheldon: It is extracted from the plant…

Howard: Alright Sheldon, why is tapioca…
Sheldon: Tapioca is extracted from the root of the plant Manihot Esculenta. Due to a high concentration of cyanide it is poisonous in its raw form and lethal if prepared improperly.

Raj: Feel better now?
Sheldon: It is also indigenous to Brazil, as is the Cocoa Bean, from which we get chocolate, the best pudding. And you promised you wouldn’t do that anymore!

Raj: Fo’ shizzle.
Sheldon: Hey it’s true, Kripke lacks the basic social skills that we take for granted, but he also controls the new open science grid computer that I need to use to run some simulations of structure formation in the early universe.

Leonard: Good luck getting time on it. The only people he lets use it are his friends.
Sheldon: Well then, the solution is simple. I shall befriend him. Kripke!

Kripke: Yeah?
Sheldon: What’d you say of the idea of you and I becoming friends?

Kripke: I would say, I have no intewest in becoming your fwiend.
Sheldon: Really? That seems rather short sighted, coming from someone who is generally considered altogether unlikable. Why don’t you take some time to reconsider?

Kripke: Yeah, I’ll do that.
Sheldon: Well I think we’re off to a terrific start.

Penny: Oh come on, really? (Leonard whistles)
Sheldon: First warning.

Penny: Hello Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hi.

Penny: What is this?
Sheldon: It’s a questionnaire I devised. I’m having some difficulty bonding with a colleague at work, so I’m doing a little research to better understand why my current friends like me.

Penny: Yes. Well, that is a good question. But is this really the best way to figure it out?
Sheldon: Yeah, I agree, the social sciences are largely hokum. But, short of putting electrodes in your brain and monitoring your response to my companionship, this is the best I can do.

Penny: Okay, question 1. Rank the following aspects of Sheldon Cooper in order of appeal. Intelligence. Ruthless attention to hygiene. Playfulness. Java applet writing?
Sheldon: I know, I may have started off with a fairly obvious one. You did an aspect of my most appealing trait, playfulness. Why don’t you just go ahead and write that number 1. I’m afraid you’re on your own for the rest. It should take you no more than 3 hours.

Penny: Wait! How many questions are on this thing?
Sheldon: Only 211. Don’t worry, in deference to you, I’ve kept them on a high school graduate reading level.

Penny: Thanks pal.
Sheldon: You got it, buddy.

Penny: Sheldon honey, did you ever consider making friends by being, I don’t know, pleasant?
Sheldon: Well that’s certainly a thought-provoking hypothesis. May I suggest it as the topic for your essay.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is reading one of the questionnaires. He tuts.
Sheldon: Your questionnaire, very disappointing.

Leonard: I answered every question Sheldon.
Sheldon: You answered the multiple choice questions in a pattern. A B B A C. A B B A C.

Leonard: Aw, you picked up on that huh?
Sheldon: How could I not?

Leonard: Come on! There’s over 200 questions. And look at some of these things. Sheldon is to camaraderie, as the space shuttle is to blank?
Sheldon: There are a number of acceptable answers, for example, C: near earth transport, but certainly not B: avocado rancher. And your essay, suggesting that I’d have better luck making friends if I wait ’til the Cylons take over? Please.

Leonard: Hold on. I put some real work into that!
Sheldon: Yes, well it’s better than what Wolowitz did. He drew a raccoon with what appears to be, a distended scrotum.

Leonard: It’s kinda cute, until you get to the scrotum.
Sheldon: What hope do I have for establishing new relationships given that my current friends apparently cannot take a few hours out of their lives to help me?

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m not going to defend a big-balled raccoon.
Sheldon: I don’t see how you could.

Leonard: What I’m trying to say is that, maybe you can’t approach this as a purely intellectual exercise.
Sheldon: What do you mean!?

Leonard: Well, remember when you tried to learn how to swim using the internet?
Sheldon: I did learn how to swim.

Leonard: On the floor.
Sheldon: The skills are transferrable. I just have no interest in going in the water.

Leonard: Then why learn how to swim?
Sheldon: The ice caps are melting Leonard. In the future, swimming isn’t going to be optional. But you do bring up an interesting point. I don’t have to break new ground here, I’m sure much of the research already exists.

Leonard: No! no, my point is, if you want to learn how to make friends, then just go out to a coffee shop or a museum. Meet people. Talk to them. Take an interest in their lives.
Sheldon: That’s insane on the face of it. Come on.

Leonard: Where are we going?
Sheldon: You’re driving me to the mall. I’m going to acquire a book that summarizes the current theories in the field of friendmaking.

 
Sheldon: Coping with the death of a loved one. My condolences.

Woman in queue: Thank you.
Sheldon: Family or friend?

Woman: Family.
Sheldon: Too bad. If it’d been a friend, I’m available to fill the void. (Woman moves away) It’s just as well, she smelled like moth balls.

Leonard: Okay, if you’re gonna start sniffing people, I’m gonna go get a hot pretzel.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Do you have any books about making friends?

Bookstore employee: Um, yeah but they’re all for little kids.
Sheldon: I assume the skills can be extrapolated and transferred.

Employee: Uh, I guess. They’re right over there by the wooden train set.
Sheldon: Oh! I love trains!

Little girl: I don’t like birds, they scare me.
Sheldon: Me too! Most people don’t see it. What are you reading?

Girl: Curious George.
Sheldon: Oh I do like monkeys!

Girl: Curious George is a monkey.
Sheldon: Somewhat anthropomorphized but yes. Say, maybe sometime you and I can go see monkeys together. Would you like that?

Leonard: Sheldon, what are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m making friends with this little girl. What’s your name?

Girl: Rebecca.
Sheldon: Hi Rebecca, I’m your new friend, Sheldon.

Leonard: No you’re not, let’s go.
Sheldon: We were really hitting it off.

Raj: Damn it. I had Lysine and changed it.
Sheldon: Oh good! You’re just in time. I believe I’ve isolated the algorithm for making friends.

Howard: Hear him out. If he’s really on to something, we can open a booth at Comic-Con, make a fortune.
Sheldon: See, my initial approach to Kripke, had the same deficiencies as those that plagued Stu the Cockatoo, when he was new at the zoo.

Leonard: Yes, he’s new at the zoo.
Sheldon: It’s a terrific book. I’ve distilled its essence into a simple flowchart that would guide me through the process.

Howard: I can fix it.
Sheldon: Mmhmm. Mmhmm. It’s interesting. But isn’t ventriloquism, by definition, a solo activity? Yeah? Tell me another interest of yours. Hmmm. Is there any chance you like monkeys? What is wrong with you? Everybody likes monkeys. Hang on, Kripke. (Checking changes Howard has made to his flowchart) A loop counter? And an escape to the least objectionable activity! Howard, that’s brilliant! I’m surprised you saw that.

Howard: Gee. Why can’t Sheldon make friends?
Sheldon: Alright Kripke, that last interest strikes me as the least objectionable and I would like to propose that we do that together. Tomorrow. Yes, I’ll pay. Alright, goodbye. Alright! Time to learn rock climbing.

Scene: Rock climbing centre. Sheldon and Kripke are watching someone descend the practice wall.
Sheldon: You know, I am a fan of ventriloquism. Maybe you, me and your dummy could go get a hot beverage. He could talk while you drink.

Kripke: Nope, I wanna climb some wocks.
Sheldon: This appears significantly more monolithic than it did on my laptop. No, one expects to see Hominids learning to use bones as weapeons.

Kripke: You afwaid of heights, Cooper?
Sheldon: Hardly. Fear of heights is illogical. Fear of falling, on the other hand, is prudent and evolutionary. What would you say is the minimum altitude I need to achieve to cement our new-found friendship?

Kripke: Come on, they have birthday parties here. Wittle kids climb this.
Sheldon: Little kid Hominids, perhaps. (To man who attaches him to ropes) Is this your entire job? Your parents must be so proud.

Kripke: Let’s go, Cooper.
Sheldon: Coming, Kripke. Okay. Harness seems to be secure. Small amount of incontinence just now, but the website said that’s to be expected. Hey, this isn’t so bad. A bit like vertical swimming.

Kripke: Hey, look at you, Cooper. You’re almost halfway to the top.
Sheldon: I am? I was wrong. It IS a fear of heights.

Kripke:You alwight there, Cooper?
Sheldon: Not really. I feel somewhat like an inverse tangent function that’s approaching an asymptote.

Kripke: Are you saying you’re stuck?
Sheldon: What part of an inverse tangent function approaching an asymptote did you not understand?

Kripke: Understood all that. I’m not a mowon. Just keep going.
Sheldon: Yeah, I don’t think I can.

Kripke: Well, then. Cwimb back down.
Sheldon: No, that doesn’t seem any more likely.

Kripke: So what’s the pwan, Cooper?
Sheldon: Well, it’s not exactly a plan but I think I’m going to pass out.

Leonard: It’s a little thing but you really do miss it.
Sheldon: Hello, everyone. I brought my new friend, Barry Kripke, home for dinner.

Kripke: He passed out. Just hung there like a big sawami.
Sheldon: D-d-d! That’s where I sit.

Penny: Sheldon, are you okay?
Sheldon: Oh yes, I pass out all the time. But, it was worth it. I’ve made substantial progress in bonding with Kripke, which brings me to an awkward moment.

Leonard: What’s that?
Sheldon: Maintaining five friendships promises to be a Herculean task. So, I’m going to have to let one of you go.

Howard: Me, me. Let it be me.
Sheldon: Leonard, you are my roommate, my source of transportation and you help me fold my sheets when they come out of the dryer. You are safe.

Leonard: Can I whistle?
Sheldon: Don’t be silly. Howard, you do not have a PhD, your cologne is an assault on the senses and you’re not available for video games during the Jewish high holidays.

Howard: Guilty as charged. I’m out.
Sheldon: No. You, too, are safe.

Penny: Okay. You know what? I see where this is going. I’m not one of you guys. I’m not a scientist. So just…
Sheldon: Penny, Penny, Penny. Everything you’re saying is true, but please allow me to continue. Raj, you’re out. The good question, while you do provide a certain cultural diversity to an otherwise homogenous group, your responses to the questionnaire were truly disturbing. How could you, for a moment, think that my favourite amino acid is Glutamine?

Leonard: He had Lysine but changed it.
Sheldon: Yeah. Shoulda, woulda coulda, Raj.

Howard: Suddenly I’m looking pretty good, huh?
Sheldon: So uh, Kripke, I was wondering if there’s any chance you could get me some time on the open science grid computer.

Kripke: No.
Sheldon: No? But we’re friends!

Kripke: I’m sowy. No, my fwiend?
Sheldon: I’m confused. I was given an understanding that you allow your friends time on the machine?

Kripke: No, that’s wong. There’s an official schedule. I have no contwol over it.
Sheldon: Oh. This entire endeavour seems to have been an exercise in futility. Raj, you’re back in. He likes monkeys.

Leonard: Hmmm.
Sheldon: The problem appears to be unsolvable.

Leonard: We’ve got to be missing something. Let’s start again. The movie is playing here at 7:20, here at 7:40, here at 8:10 and here at 8:45.
Sheldon: Right, these theatres have to be eliminated.

Leonard: Why? They’re state-of-the-art digital projection, 20-channel surround sound.
Sheldon: Yes, but they have no Icee machines. Despite my aggressive letter-writing campaign, I might add.

Raj: What about the multiplex here? The seats are terrific.
Sheldon: They have Twizzlers instead of Red Vines. No amount of lumbar support can compensate for that.

Raj: We could eat after the movie.
Sheldon: Unacceptable, the delay would result in tomorrow morning’s bowel movement occurring at work.

Howard: Wow. I don’t see how we missed that.
Sheldon: Excuse me, in what universe are Slurpies Icees?

Leonard: Sheldon, would you be prepared, on a non-precedential basis, to create an emergency ad-hoc Slurpie-Icee equivalency?
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard, you know I can’t do that.

Raj: Later, dude.
Sheldon: They’re right, it was the only option.

Penny: Ooh, ooh, shut the door, shut the door.
Sheldon: Why?

Penny: Just do it! (Penny runs in. Sheldon shuts door. Penny opens door again) Get inside and shut the door.
Sheldon: Well, you didn’t specify.

Penny: Is Leonard around?
Sheldon: He went to the movies without me. It was the only option. I’m sorry, I don’t understand which social situation this is. Could you give me some guidance as to how to proceed?

Penny: The building manager’s showing an apartment downstairs, and I haven’t paid my rent.
Sheldon: Oh, I see. Penny, I’m not sure I’m comfortable harbouring a fugitive from the 2311 North Los Robles Corporation.

Penny: It’s no big deal. I’m just a little behind on my bills because they cut back my hours at the restaurant and my car broke down.
Sheldon: If you recall, I pointed out the “check engine” light to you several months ago.

Penny: Well the “check engine” light is fine. It’s still blinking away. It’s the stupid engine that stopped working. It cost me like twelve hundred dollars to fix it.
Sheldon: You know, it occurs to me you could solve all your problems by obtaining more money.

Penny: Yes, it occurs to me, too.
Sheldon: Hang on a moment. (He opens a jar. Snakes jump out. He then pulls out a large wedge of money) Here. Take some. Pay me back when you can.

Penny: Wow, you got a lot of money in there.
Sheldon: That’s why it’s guarded by snakes. Take some.

Penny: Don’t be silly.
Sheldon: I’m never silly. Here.

Penny: No, I can’t.
Sheldon: Don’t you need money?

Penny: Well, yeah, but…
Sheldon: This is money I’m not using.

Penny: But what if you need it?
Sheldon: My expenses account for 46.9% of my after-tax income. The rest is divvied up between a small savings account, this deceptive container of peanut brittle and the hollowed-out buttocks of a superhero action figure who shall remain nameless for his own protection. Or her own protection. Take some.

Penny: Really? I mean, are you sure?
Sheldon: I see no large upcoming expenditures unless they develop an affordable technology to fuse my skeleton with adamantium like Wolverine.

Penny: Are they working on that?
Sheldon: I sincerely hope so.

Penny: Okay. Well, thank you. Oh, God, no, I can’t. Sheldon honey, I don’t want things to be weird between us.
Sheldon: Won’t it also be weird if I have to say hello to you every morning on my way to work and you’re living in a refrigerator box and washing your hair with rain water?

Penny: I’ll pay you back as soon as I can.
Sheldon: Of course you will. It’s impossible to pay me back sooner than you can. Assuming you subscribe to a linear understanding of time and causality.

Scene: Entering the lobby of the building.
Sheldon: You know, I’ve given the matter some thought, and I think I’d be willing to be a house pet to a race of super-intelligent aliens.

Leonard: Interesting.
Sheldon: Ask me why.

Leonard: Do I have to?
Sheldon: Of course. That’s how you move a conversation forward.

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: The learning opportunities would be abundant. Additionally, I like having my belly scratched.

Penny: Great. I hope I’m a waitress at the Cheesecake Factory for my whole life.
Sheldon: Was that sarcasm?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Was that sarcasm?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Was that sarca..

Leonard: Stop it!
Sheldon: Penny, you appear to have a package here.

Penny: Oh, thanks. This must be the beret I ordered. A couple of months ago. It was back-ordered.
Sheldon: Did you know the beret is an example of piece of women’s fashion adapted from male military uniforms? Another fascinating example is the epaulet.

Penny: Okay, whatever. It’s not like I’m running up and down the streets just buying myself berets. I bought one, like, a month ago, and it was back-ordered, look, it finally arrived, all right?
Sheldon: All right.

Leonard: Weird.
Sheldon: Oh, good, that was an unusual interaction. I wasn’t sure.

Leonard: Did you guys have an argument?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Well, you clearly did something to aggravate her.
Sheldon: I’m at a loss. If you like, you can review my daily log of social interactions and see if there’s a blunder I overlooked.

Leonard: It was fourteen fifty, but it’s okay.
Sheldon: Oh, good. Dinner’s here.

Penny: Yes, dinner’s here, and I’m having some. I’m having takeout food.
Sheldon: Okay.

Penny: You’re damn right it’s okay. I’ve been having leftovers at the restaurant for like four days, and I wanted something different. So sue me.
Sheldon: Forgive me, Penny, but that would be the very definition of a frivolous lawsuit.

Penny: Going home, where I won’t be interrogated like a criminal. I forgot my fortune cookie.
Sheldon: In case either of you have larceny in your heart, you should know that I’ve moved my money out of the snake can.

Leonard: Hey, you guys want to go on a real live quest?
Sheldon: Outside? I just made cocoa.

Leonard: You guys are unbelievable, you play a game to simulate adventure, but when there’s real adventure out there in the real world, you just wimp out.
Sheldon: Leonard, do you not recall the last time we visited this gentleman, we returned home without pants?

Leonard: I do.
Sheldon: Are you sure? Because your proposal suggests that you don’t.

Leonard: I’m not afraid of him.
Sheldon: All right. Leonard fairly calls the question, who is in favour of abandoning our game and confronting Penny’s steroid-infused ex-boyfriend in a suicidal mission to extract money from him? Say hi to Kurt for us.

Leonard: Excuse me. When Frodo left the Shire to take the one ring to Mordor, didn’t Samwise, Pippin and Merry go with him?
Sheldon: They did.

Leonard: Well?
Sheldon: They had a terrible time of it, Leonard.

Leonard: Guys, there are four of us and one of him.
Sheldon: Which means his triumph will be even larger. Minstrels will write songs about him.

Kurt: No. What do you want?
Sheldon: You don’t remember me? How could he not remember me?

Leonard: Sheldon, not now.
Sheldon: I remember him.

Leonard: No, the problem isn’t solved. He just blew us off.
Sheldon: I’ve got it. He didn’t remember me because the last time we met I was in a Halloween costume.

Scene: Leonard’s car.
Sheldon: Congratulations. You may not have succeeded in getting cash, but you did secure a formal acknowledgment of the debt. (Leonard has “I owe Penny $1800, Kurt” written on his forehead.) 

Penny: Maybe if you’re working on a tuna boat.
Sheldon: Hello, Penny.

Penny: Sheldon, here is your money. Thank you very much. It helped a lot.
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Darn. I can’t seem to get the hang of that.

Leonard: Bye.
Sheldon: Well done, Leonard. The true hero doesn’t seek adulation, he fights for right and justice simply because it’s his nature.

Leonard: Penny’s hooking up with her jerk of an ex-boyfriend and I have indelible ink on my forehead!
Sheldon: That’s your badge of honour, your warrior’s wound, if you will. I was wrong, minstrels will write songs about you.

Leonard: Can’t we just postpone it till the spring? Maybe next summer?
Sheldon: This should be fairly easy to deduce. He’s holding the phone to his left ear. Ears do not cross hemispheres, so he’s using the analytical rather than the emotional side of the brain, suggesting that he has no personal relationship with the caller.

Leonard: No, I didn’t realize it had been so long. Sure, I guess there’s no other choice but to just go ahead and do it.
Sheldon: He’s referring to an activity he has done before. It’s unpleasant and needs to be repeated. This suggests some sort of invasive medical test, like perhaps a colonoscopy.

Leonard: Aren’t there any other options? There’s not a lot of room, it’s gonna be uncomfortable.
Sheldon: Yes, yes. Yeah, I’m definitely going with colonoscopy.

Leonard: I’ll start again.
Sheldon: I have the same problem with him. My theory is that his lack of focus stems from an over-developed sex drive.

Beverley:  Oh, I don’t know where he would’ve gotten that. Aside from a pro forma consummation of our marriage, his father and I only had intercourse for the purposes of reproduction.
Sheldon: That seems a fairly efficient arrangement.

Beverley: Yes, we think so. We’ve both done papers on it. Mine from the neuroscientific point of view and his from an anthropological. Mine, of course, was the only one worth reading.
Sheldon: Of course. I would very much like to read about your sex life.

Leonard: Here’s your tea, Mother. So, what are you guys talking about?
Sheldon: The frequency with which your parents had intercourse.

Beverley: I’m sorry, it’s on my other laptop.
Sheldon: Aw…

Beverley: His heart stopped beating. I have to urinate.
Sheldon: What a remarkable woman.

Leonard: Yeah I, I thought you guys might hit it off.
Sheldon: I envy you your childhood.

Leonard: I hate to tell you, but the only warm memories I have of my childhood are of my Uncle Floyd.
Sheldon: You’re clearly misremembering. Your mother is brilliant, analytical, insightful, and I’m betting she never hit you with a Bible because you wouldn’t eat your Brussels sprouts.

Leonard: Sheldon, you don’t give your mother enough credit. She’s warm, she’s loving, she doesn’t glue electrodes to your head to measure your brain waves while potty training.
Sheldon: You were lucky. When I was a kid, if I wanted an EEG, I had to attach my own electrodes.

Howard: You know the rules. You brought your mom to work, you must suffer.
Sheldon: Leonard, I had no idea your siblings were so much more successful than you.

Beverley: Oh, the middle stall was occupied. I’ll have to try again later.
Sheldon: It’s totally understandable. In bladder voiding, as in real estate, it’s location, location, location.

Beverley: But it’s one o’clock, you were going to show me your laboratory at one o’clock.
Sheldon: Her reasoning is unassailable. It is one o’clock.

Raj: You always say that, but we never do.
Sheldon: You went to the comic book store without me.7

Beverley: Your scan data will be very elpful to my research. You have a remarkable brain.
Sheldon: I know. Although I’ve always hated how my right frontal lobe looks in pictures.

Beverley: Common complaint among men. Nothing’s ever big enough, except when they get a tumour. Then you never hear the end of it.
Sheldon: I’d love to see a scan of your brain sometime.

Beverley: Oh, I’ll send you a link, but its physiology is fairly unimpressive.
Sheldon: Oh, I can’t believe that.

Beverley: Your unwillingness to accept empirical evidence suggests an attempt at flattery.
Sheldon: My apologies. I’ve been living with your son too long. Gotten into some bad habits.

Beverley: Understandable.
Sheldon: Can I make you a cup of tea?

Beverley: I doubt it, but if anyone has a chance, it’s probably you.
Sheldon: I feel very comfortable around you.

Beverley: I feel very comfortable around you, too.
Sheldon: It’s surprising because I generally don’t feel comfortable around, well, anyone.

Beverley: Nor I.
Sheldon: What are the odds that two individuals as unique as ourselves would be connected by someone as comparatively workaday as your son?

Beverley: Is that a rhetorical point or would you like to do the math?
Sheldon: I’d like to do the math.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: So, what do you think?

Beverley: I’m very tempted. I’m just not sure it’s appropriate with my son’s roommate.
Sheldon: Normally, I’d feel the same way. But based on everything I’ve observed about us, I can’t help but speculate we’d be very good together.

Beverley: True. I’ve had a similar observation. It’s certainly something I could never do with my husband.
Sheldon: I was hesitant the first time I tried it, but I experienced an unanticipated and remarkable release of endorphins. It’s quite satisfying.

Beverley: I see what you’re doing. You’re appealing to the neuroscientific researcher in me.
Sheldon: You see right through me, don’t you?

Howard: But what about the creek bed?
Sheldon: The Pharmacology Department controls that, and they’re all hopped up on experimental steroids.

Raj: Well, that’s it then, we’re doomed.
Sheldon: I think the time has come to acknowledge that we are paying the price for some of us failing to attend my Physics Department paintball strategy meeting.

Howard: I told you my mom has spider veins, I had to take her to the laser clinic.
Sheldon: And I told you I wanted to see a doctor’s note.

Leonard: No, that shouldn’t be a problem, Venus is up during the day. They’re probably just all staring at the sky.
Sheldon: All right, what we need now is a tactical retreat. Did you see the episode of Stargate where they found themselves on a planet with a culture based loosely on Earth’s Athens and Sparta? Not important. Leonard, Raj and I are going to burst out the door and run away, Howard will cover us.

Howard: Why don’t I run away and you cover me?
Sheldon: Because you chose your mother’s veins over victory. On three. One, two, three, go!

Leonard: Yeah, more cutbacks.
Sheldon: Unacceptable. It baffles me why they don’t simply let some of you go so that there’s money available for my research.

Leonard: You know what baffles me, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Based on your academic record, any number of things, I would imagine.

Leonard: Yeah, okay, but what’s with the back-scratching and the meow!
Sheldon: I believe the back-scratching metaphor generally describes a quid pro quo situation where one party provides goods or services to the second party in compensation for a similar action.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: The mrow, that sounded to me like an African civet cat.

Leonard: Are you done?
Sheldon: No. Despite what the name suggests, the civet cat is not a true cat. Now I’m done.

Howard: In the paintball shed! Twice!
Sheldon: Is that why you didn’t cover our escape and let us get cut down like animals?

Howard: Oh, yeah, sorry about that.
Sheldon: My good man, dereliction of duty in the face of the enemy is a court-martial offense.

Penny: How can I calm down? I’m gonna lose my whole shopping cart. That’s three hours of picking out shoes just shot to hell.
Sheldon: Hello, Penny.

Penny: Hello, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re in my spot.

Penny: Are you planning on sitting here?
Sheldon: No, I’m going to the comic book store.

Penny: Then what difference does it make?
Sheldon: What difference does it make?

Leonard: Here we go.
Sheldon: That is my spot. In an ever-changing world, it is a single point of consistency. If my life were expressed as a function on a four-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system, that spot at the moment I first sat on it would be zero-zero-zero-zero.

Penny: Fine. (Moves)  Happy?
Sheldon: I’m not unhappy.

Leonard: Sheldon! How was the comic book store?
Sheldon: Fine. The new issue of Flash is out.

Leonard: Great, great. Did you walk the whole way? It’s a little chilly.
Sheldon: Koothrappali picked me up.

Leonard: Isn’t that terrific? He is such a good friend. You know what the best thing about friends is?
Sheldon: They don’t talk incessantly for no particular reason.

Leonard: Don’t you dare, missy.
Sheldon: Hello, fastest man alive. Want to see me read your entire comic book? Want to see it again? Something’s wrong.

Leonard: What do you mean?
Sheldon: I’m not sure. It doesn’t feel right.

Leonard: Why don’t you just eat in your desk chair?
Sheldon: Why don’t I just eat in my desk chair?

Penny: Here we go.
Sheldon: That is my desk chair, that is where I work. I don’t eat in my desk chair and I don’t work in my spot. I work in my desk chair and eat in my spot.

Howard: You know, there’s kind of an obvious solution here. (To Raj) Get up. (Raj does. Howard moves his cushion across to Sheldon’s spot) There. Problem solved. (Raj whispers to him) Nobody cares where you’re going to sit. You’re not crazy.
Sheldon: Excuse me, but the problem is not solved. If your head had been accidentally amputated, and we transplanted a dog’s head in its place, would that be “problem solved”?

Penny: Sheldon, I am really, really sorry, but it’s only for a week. Can’t you be a little bit flexible? Yeah, sorry. I didn’t really think that through.
Sheldon: You claim it’s going to be a week, but I have no faith in your dry cleaner.

Penny: Why not?
Sheldon: Did you notice the sign on his counter? He’s not a full-time dry cleaner. He also makes keys.

Leonard: Oh, for God’s sake, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Focus is important. Was Michael DeBakey a wedding planner in between heart transplants? Did Alexander Fleming moonlight as a hairdresser? “Thanks for discovering penicillin, now how about we try a bouffant?”

Leonard: Why are you crouching there?
Sheldon: This is my spot. Where else am I supposed to crouch?

Leonard: Really? Great. Sheldon, look. Good as new.
Sheldon: From that key maker, I highly doubt it.

Penny: Come on, Sheldon. Just give it a try.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: There, nice and comfy cosy. Zero, zero, zero.
Sheldon: There’s one more zero. You forgot the time parameter.

Penny: Sit on the damn couch.
Sheldon: Nope.

Leonard: Penny, Penny, I think I know what to do. Sheldon, I have some bad news.
Sheldon: More?

Leonard: I’m afraid so. You know the cashew chicken I get you Monday nights?
Sheldon: Yes. From Szechuan Palace.

Leonard: Szechuan Palace closed two years ago.
Sheldon: What? Wh-Where did my cashew chicken come from?

Leonard: Golden Dragon.
Sheldon: No. No, this isn’t right. Our food always comes in Szechuan Palace containers.

Leonard: Yeah, well, before they went out of business, I bought 4,000 containers. I keep them in the trunk of my car.
Sheldon: But. Oh, this changes everything.

Leonard: I thought that might take his mind off the cushion.
Sheldon: What’s real? What isn’t? How can I know?

Leonard: Oh, God, I wish I had.
Sheldon: Leonard?

Leonard: Yeah, buddy?
Sheldon: I still don’t like this cushion.

Leonard: Okay. Now, we all run out. Sheldon and I will cut to the left behind these trees. Raj, Howard and Leslie flank to the right behind the rocks. Then we’ll all have a great view as Penny runs out and kills everyone else in sight.
Sheldon: Right, just one thing before we start.

Penny: What the hell?
Sheldon: That was for my cushion.

Leonard: Sheldon, Penny was our only hope.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Leonard. But revenge is a dish best served cold.

Penny: Screw that. (Shoots Sheldon)
Sheldon: She can’t shoot me. She’s dead.

Leonard: He’s right. You can’t. (Shoots Sheldon)
Sheldon: Well, if we’re going to descend into anarchy (Shoots Leonard)

Howard: Okay, Raj, hand me the number six torque screwdriver.
Sheldon: Stop. We can’t do this, it’s not right.

Raj: Sheldon, you have two choices. Either you let him put a bigger hard drive in the TiVo, or you delete stuff before we go out of town.
Sheldon: But once you open the box, you’ve voided the warranty. The warranty is a sacred covenant we’ve entered into with the manufacturer. He offers to stand by his equipment, and we in return agree not to violate the integrity of the internal hardware. This little orange sticker is all that stands between us and anarchy.

Penny: Oh, I love San Francisco. I wish I was going with you.
Sheldon: I understand your envy. This is a can’t-miss symposium. There are going to be discussions on bioorganic cellular computer devices, the advancements in multi-threaded task completion, plus a roundtable on the nonequilibrium Green’s function approach to the photoionization process in atoms.

Penny: Of course I haven’t.
Sheldon: George Smoot is a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, one of the great minds of our time. His work in black body form and anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background radiation cemented our understanding of the origin of the universe.

Penny: It’s kind of a funny name, though, Smoot.
Sheldon: It’s like talking to a chimp.

Leonard: Yeah, I wish.
Sheldon: We’re not flying, we’re taking the train.

Leonard: Well, we had a vote. Three of us voted for airplane, Sheldon voted for train, so we’re taking the train.
Sheldon: Don’t say it like that, Leonard, say it like: we’re taking the train!

Leonard: Hey, we’re all going over to the Apple store to make fun of the guys at the Genius Bar. You want to come?
Sheldon: Oh, I always enjoy that, but I’m a little busy.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m simplifying the task of packing for our trip. See, by attaching RFID tags to my clothing, it will enable my laptop to read and identify the items with this wand. I will then cross-reference them against destination, anticipated activity spectrum, weather conditions, duration of trip, et cetera.

Leonard: Well, that does sound much simpler. How long is this going to take?
Sheldon: Assuming I can keep up this pace, three hours, 11 minutes, and plus however long it takes to conclude this fairly pointless conversation.

Leonard: Wow. Teasing the guys at the Apple store seems a little redundant now.
Sheldon: I don’t follow.

Leonard: I wouldn’t expect you to. I’ll see you later.
Sheldon: Socks, one pair, cotton, argyle, blue. Socks, one pair, cotton, argyle, blue.

Scene: On the train.
Sheldon: What on earth are you doing?

Raj: Whatever it is, I’m guessing we’re doing it wrong.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, this is the Coast Starlight, one of the great American trains operating on one of the classic American routes. On this side, you’ll see panoramic ocean vistas inaccessible to any other form of transportation, while on your side, you’ll be treated to 350 miles of CostCos, Jiffy Lubes, and cinderblock homes with above-ground pools.

Raj: What’s wrong with Jiffy Lubes?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Why not?
Sheldon: That’s over the wheelbase. Are you completely unfamiliar with the suspension characteristics of a pre-1980 Pullman-built Superliner Deluxe passenger coach?

Leonard: Sheldon, we’ve been on this train 90 seconds, and you’ve already said a thousand words. Just tell us where to sit and shut up.
Sheldon: Here. I’m hoping once you reap the endorphic rewards of the steady clickety-clack of steel wheels on polished rails, your sour disposition will abate.

Raj: It’s not so bad, really. At least these trains have modern plumbing. In India, you squat over a hole in the train and expose your naked buttocks to the chilly air of Rajasthan.
Sheldon: He is referring, of course, to third class on Indian Railways’ magnificent Ranakpur Express and its twelve hundred kilometer journey from Maharashtra to the Bikaner Junction.

Leonard: Maybe John Connor’s aboard and she’s protecting him from an evil Terminator.
Sheldon: Unlikely. That’s a television show, Leonard.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: Of course, if SkyNet actually did exist in the future, a perfect way to infiltrate and destroy mankind would be to send Terminators back posing as actors who have played Terminators in popular films and television series, lulling us into a false sense of security, i.e., that’s Summer Glau from The Sarah Connor Chronicles. No, Summer, don’t kill me! I’m pro-robot! Ahh!

Leonard: At least he’s off the train crap.
Sheldon: Whee!

Leonard: My money’s on tuck and roll.
Sheldon: I’m confused. I thought you were involved in some sort of socially intimate pairing with Leslie Winkle.

Howard: Sheldon, let me explain to you how this works.
Sheldon: All right.

Howard: That’s Summer Glau.
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: Sheldon, is there a place on this train to get alcohol?
Sheldon: Interesting that you ask. The Coast Starlight recently added the refurbished Pacific Parlour Car. Built in 1956 and originally known as the Santa Fe Lounge Car, the lower level is a theatre…

Raj: Yeah-yeah, which way?
Sheldon: and the upper level is a bar that offers wine tastings if you’re going as far as Portland.

Leonard: You’re going to need more than 11 hours.
Sheldon: Oh, no.

Leonard: What’s the matter?
Sheldon: I forgot my flash drive.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: So we have to go back.

Leonard: Okay, Sheldon, I’m going to say why and your answer cannot be because I forgot my flash drive.
Sheldon: You don’t understand. My flash drive has my paper on astrophysical probes of M-theory effects in the early universe that I was going to give to George Smoot at the conference.

Leonard: Why do you have to give your paper to George Smoot?
Sheldon: It’s brilliant. He needs to read it.

Leonard: So you’ll send him an e-mail when we get back.
Sheldon: Then I won’t get to see his face light up as he reads it.

Leonard: Right. Of course.
Sheldon: Oh, this is an unmitigated disaster.

Leonard: Well, there’s nothing you can do about it, so relax, sit back, enjoy the clickety-clack of the steel wheels on the polished rails.
Sheldon: You forgot your flash drive, You forgot your flash drive (repeated over and over in time to the sound of the train)

Howard (steeling himself to talk to Summer Glau, to himself): It’s hot in here. Must be Summer. (Walks towards her, then walks straight past. Returns, makes to talk to her, then turns to two nuns over the other side of the corridor) So, where you gals headed?
Sheldon: Okay, I’ve found the perfect solution. We get off the train at the next stop in Oxnard. We then take the 1:13 train back to Union Station. We take a cab back to the apartment, get my flash drive, and then race to San Luis Obispo, where, assuming the lights are with us and minimal traffic, we’ll meet the train.

Leonard: I’ve got a better idea.
Sheldon: Are you going to be sarcastic?

Leonard: Boy, you take all the fun out of it for me.  But look, Penny’s home. Why don’t we just call her, have her go in the apartment, get your flash drive and e-mail you the paper?
Sheldon: But the flash drive is in a locked drawer in my desk.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: The key is hidden in my room.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: Penny would have to go into my room.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: People don’t go in my room!

Leonard: I see. Well, it seems once again, you’re caught between a rock and a crazy place.
Sheldon: Oh, I hate when that happens.

Penny: Just a sec. (Switches back to first line) The theatre is above a bowling alley, so it’s a little noisy, but it might be the only chance I’ll ever get to play Anne Frank. And the director is brilliant. He uses the bowling sounds as, like, Nazi artillery. Okay, great, I’ll see you then. (Switches line again) Hello?
Sheldon: Okay, step four. Do you see that small plastic case on my dresser?

Penny: Your dresser? Who is this?
Sheldon: It’s Sheldon.

Penny: Oh, hey, Sheldon! How is San Francisco?
Sheldon: I’m not in San Francisco. I’m on a train. Were you even listening to me?

Penny: Uh, no, I was talking to my friend, but what’s up?
Sheldon: What’s up? I’ll tell you what’s up. I’m in a crisis situation, and I need you to marshal your powers of concentration, limited as they may be…

Leonard: He’s calling to ask you a favour. You might be confused because he didn’t use the words, Penny, Sheldon, please or favour.
Sheldon: Okay. Enough chitchat. Okay, step one, locate your emergency key to our apartment. Step two, enter our apartment. Step three, enter my bedroom.

Penny: Oh, hang on, Sheldon, getting another call.
Sheldon: No! Leonard, let me tell you something. Personal robots cannot get here soon enough.

Raj: You mean one of the hopeless geeks? No. Those are crazy people. Howard, be a dear and get me another one of these. Now, him, he’s one of those geeks.
Sheldon: All right, now, before you enter my bedroom unescorted, I need you to understand that this onetime grant of access does not create a permanent easement. Easement. It’s a legal right

Howard: Placebo, you say. Interesting.
Sheldon: Yes, I’m still here. Where am I going? I’m on a train. Now, what you’ll be looking for is a small wooden box located between a Hoberman’s sphere and a sample of quartz flecked with pyrite. Hoberman’s Sphere. It’s a collapsible icosidodecahedron. No, the thing with the time on it is my alarm clock.

Penny: Okay, I got a box, but there’s no key in here. Just letters.
Sheldon: That’s the wrong box. Put it back.

Penny: Oh, Sheldon, are these letters from your grandmother?
Sheldon: Don’t read those letters!

Penny: Oh, look, she calls you Moon Pie. That is so cute.
Sheldon: Put down the letters!

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: I’m back.

Penny: What up, Moon Pie?
Sheldon: Nobody calls me Moon Pie but Meemaw!

Penny: Okay, I found the box. Now what?
Sheldon: You’re holding a Japanese puzzle box, which takes ten precise moves to open. First, locate the panel with the diamond pattern and slide the centre portion one millimetre to the left. Then, on the opposite end of the box, slide the entire panel down two millimetres. You’ll hear a slight click.

Penny: Hang on. Sheldon, do you have any emotional attachment to this box?
Sheldon: No, it’s a novelty I ordered off the Internet. Now, did you hear the click?

Howard: Okay. Great. Now, can I take one where it looks like we’re making out?
Sheldon: Okay, now you’re going to insert the flash drive into the USB port. She calls me Moon Pie because I’m nummy-nummy and she could just eat me up, now, please put the flash drive in the USB port. The one that looks like a little duck’s mouth.

Scene: The conference.
Sheldon: So, I’m thinking, you won the Nobel Prize what, three years ago? So you must deal with a whole lot of what has Smoot done lately? My thought is we continue my research as a team, you know, Cooper-Smoot, alphabetical, and when we win the Nobel Prize, you’ll be back on top.

George Smoot: With all due respect, Dr. Cooper, are you on crack?
Sheldon: Fine! Smoot-Cooper. Wow, what a diva.

Howard: Too bad. You know the rules of Secret Agent Laser Obstacle Chess. Uh, Leonard died again, Sheldon. You’re up.
Sheldon: Despite my deep love of chess, lasers and aerosol disinfectant, I must forfeit.

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: – Because it’s almost eleven o’clock.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: So, Penny has a don’t knock on my door before eleven o’clock  or I punch you in the throat rule.

Scene: Outside Penny’s door. Sheldon stands looking at his watch with his hand poised to knock. At the right moment he starts knocking.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: It’s eleven am.

Penny: I know. You’re safe.
Sheldon: This package came while you were at work.

Penny: Oh, great, my rhinestones. Thank you.
Sheldon: Excuse me.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: You have to sign this.

Penny: What is it?
Sheldon: When I signed for the package, I was deputized by the United Parcel Service and entrusted with its final delivery. I now need you to acknowledge receipt of the package so that I’m fully indemnified and no longer liable.

Penny: Sheldon, it’s just a box of rhinestones.
Sheldon: Well, the contents are irrelevant. A legal bailment has been created. Does that mean nothing to you?

Penny: It means nothing to anybody. Come here, let me show you what I’m doing.
Sheldon: Bailment describes a relationship in common law where a physical possession of personal property, or chattels, is transferred from one person, the bailor, to another person, the bailee.

Penny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Look, look, look! I started a business.
Sheldon: Obviously, not a cleaning business.

Penny: No, I’m making flower barrettes. See? I call them Penny Blossoms. I made one for myself, then all the girls at work wanted one. Then I showed some to this lady who runs a shop in Old Town. She sells cards and homemade jewellery. She said she wanted to sell them. I said okay, and in one week, I made a $156.
Sheldon: Good for you. Sign here.

Penny: Sheldon, don’t you get it? If this takes off, I won’t have to be a waitress anymore.
Sheldon: But then who will bring me my cheeseburger on Tuesday nights?

Penny: Another waitress.
Sheldon: What’s her name?

Penny: I don’t know.
Sheldon: And you’re going to let her handle my food?

Penny: Nancy. Her name is Nancy.
Sheldon: I think you’re just making that up.

Penny: Fine, cheeseburger.
Sheldon: Maybe I’d be better off with Nancy.

Penny: So, what do you think? I mean, this could be a business, right?
Sheldon: How many of these can you make a day?

Penny: About twenty.
Sheldon: And how much profit do you make per Penny Blossom?

Penny: I don’t know, like, 50 cents. I’m not sure.
Sheldon: No, Of course you’re not. All right, ten dollars a day times five days a week times 52 weeks a year is two thousand six hundred dollars.

Penny: That’s all?
Sheldon: Before taxes.

Penny: Well, I don’t have to pay taxes on this stuff.
Sheldon: I believe the Internal Revenue Service would strongly disagree. But, if you took advantage of modern marketing techniques, and you optimized your manufacturing process, you might be able to make this a viable business.

Penny: And you know about that stuff?
Sheldon: Penny, I’m a physicist. I have a working knowledge of the entire universe and everything it contains.

Penny: Who’s Radiohead?
Sheldon: I have a working knowledge of the important things in the universe. Good luck.

Penny: Sheldon, hold on. Could you maybe show me how to make more money with this?
Sheldon: Of course I could.

Penny: Sheldon, wait! Will you?
Sheldon: Just to be clear here, you’re asking for my assistance.

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: And you understand that will involve me telling you what to do?

Penny: I understand.
Sheldon: And you’re not allowed to be sarcastic or snide to me while I’m doing so.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: Good. Let’s begin with the premise that everything you’ve done up to this point is wrong.

Penny: Oh, imagine that.
Sheldon: Sarcasm. Good-bye.

Penny: There. Done.
Sheldon: All right. 12 minutes and 17 seconds.

Penny: Pretty good, right?
Sheldon: That’s 4.9 Penny Blossoms per hour. Based on your cost of materials and your wholesale selling price, you’ll effectively be paying yourself… $5.19 a day.

Penny: A day?
Sheldon: There are children in a sneaker factory in Indonesia who outearn you.

Penny: That just can’t be right.
Sheldon: You’re questioning my math?

Penny: No, sorry.
Sheldon: Want me to show my work?

Penny: Oh, God, no, no. Just please tell me what to do about it.
Sheldon: All right, are you familiar with the development that resulted from Honoré Blanc’s 1778 use of interchangeable parts? The assembly line, of course.

Penny: Okay, you know what, if I’m not allowed to be snide, you’re not allowed to be condescending.
Sheldon: That wasn’t a part of our original agreement, and I do not agree to it now.

Penny: All right, fine. How are we supposed to set up machines and conveyor belts in my apartment?
Sheldon: You’re thinking of the moving assembly line, an understandable but not excusable mistake. No. The moving assembly line, that was introduced by Henry Ford in 1908. That innovation is what made possible our modern consumer culture by enabling a low-unit cost for manufactured goods. I guess that isn’t one of the topics discussed on your Radiohead.

Leonard: W-W-Wait, what’s going on?
Sheldon: I assume you’re referring to the sea shanty. It’s a rhythmic work song designed to increase productivity.

Leonard: Terrific, but that kind of raises more questions than it answers.
Sheldon: Penny’s making hair accessories. I’m helping her optimize her manufacturing process. All right, break’s over. (They start singing again.)

Howard: Hold on. What are you using as a bonding agent?
Sheldon: Hot glue.

Howard: You’re kidding. Any of the cyanoacrylates would do a better job.
Sheldon: It won’t work, the flower’s too porous.

Leonard: What if we infused the bottom layer with silicone-RTV to provide a better mounting surface?
Sheldon: Intriguing.

Penny: Well, there are the waitresses at my work, and this cute, little shop in Old Town.
Sheldon: Hush, hush, hush, hush, hush, virtually non-existent. I’m thinking that we set her up with a hosted turnkey e-commerce system to start.

Leonard: She’d need some kind of industrial cooling system.
Sheldon: Of course, but before we set up a marketing and distribution infrastructure, we should finish optimizing the manufacturing process. To start with, she has a terrible problem with moisture-induced glitter clump.

Howard: Actually, I’m thinking about this one stripper named Vega. But sure, calcium sulphate could work.
Sheldon: Let’s think out of the box for a moment. How about a molecular sieve?

Penny: I’ve got a spaghetti strainer in the kitchen.
Sheldon: Wow.

Leonard: Hey, we could liberate some micro-porous charcoal from the chem lab.
Sheldon: Oh, great. Raj, why don’t you and Howard go get the charcoal? Leonard, why don’t you start working on some preliminary Web site designs. I’ll make some space in our apartment so we can move the manufacturing process.

Penny: Well, what’s wrong with my apartment?
Sheldon: It’s not my apartment.

Leonard: Okay, what’s wrong with it?
Sheldon: – What’s wrong with it?

Howard: Please. Dateline could use it to attract predators.
Sheldon: Penny, this is your enterprise, so it’s ultimately your decision, but based on the quality of his work, I’d strongly recommend that we let Leonard go.

Leonard: You want to fire me?
Sheldon: What I want is irrelevant. This is Penny’s decision. Penny?

Penny: Thank you, Penny Blossoms. These will be perfect to cover my bald spot. Aww, that is so sweet.
Sheldon: Camouflaging bald spots. That’s primarily a male concern. Perhaps we could expand our market.

Howard: We add Bluetooth!
Sheldon: Brilliant. Men love Bluetooth.

Penny: Wait a minute, wait a minute, you want to make a hair barrette with Bluetooth?
Sheldon: Penny, everything is better with Bluetooth.

Leonard: The Fifth Annual East Rutherford, New Jersey, Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Alliance Luau.
Sheldon: Oh, another market to expand into, balding gay men.

Howard: And I’ll bet lesbians love Bluetooth.
Sheldon: We should get to work.

Penny: Okay, well, I’m gonna have to call them and cancel the order.
Sheldon: Excuse me, but was this not your goal? Financial independence through entrepreneurial brilliance and innovation? My brilliance and innovation, of course, but still.

Penny: I just don’t see how see can pull this off.
Sheldon: Okay, that, right there, that equivocation and self-doubt, that is not the American spirit. Did Davy Crockett quit at the Alamo? Did Jim Bowie?

Howard: They didn’t quit. They were massacred by, like, a gazillion angry Mexicans.
Sheldon: Alright, let me put it this way. Your gross receipts on this one order will be over $3,000 for one night’s work.

Howard: Oh, God, we’re never gonna finish in time. Who made Sheldon the boss anyway?
Sheldon: I believe I’m hearing some negativity on the factory floor.

Penny: So?
Sheldon: Penny, the labour force is a living organism that must be carefully nurtured. Any counterproductive grumbling must be skilfully headed off by management. Observe. Hey! Less talk, more work!

Penny: Nicely done.
Sheldon: Thank you. You hear any union talk, you let me know.

Penny: Honey, do you want some coffee?
Sheldon: No, I don’t drink coffee.

Penny: Come on, but if you don’t stay awake we’ll never finish in time.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, coffee’s out of the question. When I moved to California, I promised my mother that I wouldn’t start doing drugs.

Leonard: Sheldon, we still have 380 of these things to make.
Sheldon: I have complete faith that you will make them. Good night.

Leonard: Yeah, no. But, Sheldon, without your insight and leadership this entire enterprise will surely fail.
Sheldon: You’re right, of course.

Penny: Here, this will help.
Sheldon: Very well, but if this leads to opiates or hallucinogenics, you’re going to have to answer to my mother.

Time shift
Sheldon: Look at Planck’s Constant. People say it’s arbitrary. It could not be less arbitrary. If it varied even slightly, life as we know it would not exist. Bam! Now, now, let’s reconsider the entire argument, but with entropy reversed and effect preceding cause, so you are thinking of a universe that’s not expanding from the centre, no, it is retreating from a, from a possibility space. Bam! This is a space where we are all essentially Alice through the looking glass, standing in front the Red Queen, and we’re being offered a cracker to quench our thirst. Bam! Of course, in another universe, let’s call it universe prime, there’s another Sheldon, let’s call him Sheldon prime…

Penny: We’re all out.
Sheldon: No problem. I’ll be back before this banana hits the ground. Zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom! Zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom!

Penny: Okay, it’s done. Look, guys, for the future, I don’t mind killing the big spiders, but you have to at least try with the little ones.
Sheldon: Penny, please, we’re facing a far more serious problem than stray arachnids.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s not that bad.
Sheldon: Not bad? It’s horrible. I mean, you hear stories about this sort of thing, but you never think it’ll happen to you.

Leonard: Shh-shh-shh!
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: No!
Sheldon: The horror!

Leonard: Why would you just say something like that?
Sheldon: No, no, no, no, no, no, no…

Leonard: Slowly, like putting a new fish in a tank. You don’t just drop it in, you let the bag sit in the water a while.
Sheldon: The horror!

Penny: Sheldon, I’m sure it’s going to be fine.
Sheldon: No, it’s not going to be fine, change is never fine. They say it is, but it’s not.

Penny: Okay, honey, did you even know the people that are moving out?
Sheldon: I never met them. That’s what made them perfect, there were no awkward hellos in the halls, there was no clickety-clacking of high heel shoes on hardwood floors, they may as well have been a family of cats just jumping around from drape to drape without that annoying ammonia urine smell.

Penny: Well, I’m sure the new people will be just as quiet.
Sheldon: You can’t know that. How can you possibly know that?

Scene: Outside Howard’s house.
Sheldon: Hold on. You honestly expect me to believe that social protocol dictates we break our backs helping Wolowitz move, and then he only need buy us a pizza?

Leonard: I’m sorry, that really is how it works.
Sheldon: You’re tricking me. You tell me the truth, what do we get?

Raj: You get to choose between a mountain bike or a PS3.
Sheldon: I knew it! PS3, definitely  PS3, who would pick a mountain bike?

Scene: The lobby, there are boxes everywhere and removal men are carrying them up the stairs.
Sheldon: Oh, no, the new ones, they’re here.

Leonard: Stay calm, we don’t know anything about them yet. What are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m checking for musical instruments. Does that sound like castanets to you?

Leonard: The box says kitchen.
Sheldon: So? Do cocaine smugglers write cocaine on the box?

Leonard: Hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Yeah, it is.
Sheldon: If that concludes your faltering attempt to mate, hello.

Alicia: Hello.
Sheldon: Hello. On a scale of one to ten how light of foot would you describe yourself with one being not cat-like at all and ten being freakishly feline?

Alicia: Freakishly feline?
Sheldon: Is that your answer or do you not understand the question? We’ll come back to that one.

Leonard: Sheldon…
Sheldon: Hang on. Are you now or have you ever been a salsa, Irish folk or break-dancer?

Leonard: You’re making her uncomfortable.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m sorry. Well, if it helps you feel any better you’re doing very well so far. Next question, are you fertile?

Alicia: What?!
Sheldon: I’m trying to determine whether crying infants above my head are a possibility.

Alicia: I have no immediate plans.
Sheldon: If that changes, let me know. And finally, area rugs, pro or con?

Alicia: Pro?
Sheldon: Alicia?

Alicia: Yes?
Sheldon: Welcome to the building.

Penny: I can see.
Sheldon: Alicia’s non-musical, childless and pro-rug. She’s still on probation, of course, but I like her.

Penny: Oh, yeah, I don’t usually dress like this. I’m going jogging.
Sheldon: You don’t jog.

Penny: I can start.
Sheldon: True, but the more likely explanation for your attire is that you’re out of clean clothes again.

Penny: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re welcome, Penny.

Penny: See ya. I’m dressed like a slob today, too.
Sheldon: Oh, mimicry. I enjoy mimicry. I’ve been working on Admiral Ackbar from Return of the Jedi. “It’s a trap.” You have to imagine me with a giant squid head. “It’s a trap. It’s a trap. It’s a trap.”

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is writing on an imaginary board. There is a knock on the door.
Sheldon: Come.

Penny (entering): Hey.
Sheldon: Congratulations, I see you did your laundry.

Penny: Well, sort of.
Sheldon: How does one sort of…

Penny: I bought new clothes, okay? Is Leonard around?
Sheldon: He’s upstairs at Alicia’s.

Penny: Oh. all right, that’s cool, no biggie. He said he’d help me set up my printer, but I guess I can wait. What exactly is he doing up there?
Sheldon: In what I can only perceive as a tactical move to destroy me, he is with Wolowitz and Koothrappali setting up her stereo.

Penny: Oh, they’re all up there, huh? Hmm, typical.
Sheldon: It’s axiomatically atypical. Up until recently, they did not know Alicia, and had no encounters with her in a previous location. They never went upstairs to visit the former tenants, so your characterization of their behaviour as typical Is demonstrably fallacious.

Penny: Okay, now I see the giant squid head. (Leaves)
Sheldon: Oh, great! now, I have to start all over again. (Rubs out imaginary workings)

 
Sheldon: Who is it? Oh hello, Penny, it’s open, come in. Sarcasm.

Penny: Well, they’re all still up there.
Sheldon: You think I can’t hear them? Listen to that. Stomp, stomp, stomp. That’s Wolowitz in his stacked heels that fool no one.

Penny: I don’t even know why I care. I don’t care. All right, I cared enough to memorize that stupid joke, but that’s all I care.
Sheldon: You know, Penny, there’s something that occurs in beehives you might find interesting. Occasionally, a new queen will arrive while the old queen is still in power. When this happens, the old queen must either locate to a new hive or engage in a battle to the death until only one queen remains.

Penny: What are you saying, that I’m threatened by Alicia? That I’m like the old queen of the hive and it’s just time for me to go?
Sheldon: I’m just talking about bees. They’re on the discovery channel. What are you talking about?

Penny: No, no occasion, just felt like getting some Chinese chow for my peeps.
Sheldon: Did you remember to ask for the chicken with broccoli to be diced, not shredded?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Even though the menu description specifies shredded?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Brown rice, not white?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: You stop at the Korean grocery and get the good hot mustard?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Did you pick up the low-sodium soy sauce from the market?

Penny: Yes
Sheldon: Good. See how it’s done, Leonard?

Penny: …chinese food right here.
Sheldon: They’re gone, Penny. They can’t hear you.

Penny: I cannot believe they’re letting her just use them like that. I mean, anything she wants, they go panting after her like trained dogs. You know that just last week, she had Howard drive all the way to her uncle’s house in Orange County to pick up her TV?
Sheldon: You once had Leonard and me get your television from your ex-boyfriend.

Penny: Apples and oranges here, Sheldon. I’m telling you, that girl is a user, iceskating through the life on her looks, taking advantage of innocent weak-willed men, getting auditions for stupid network shows. It creams my corn.
Sheldon: May I interject something here?

Penny: Please.
Sheldon: You got the wrong mustard.

Raj: I like green lantern, I’m just saying it’s pretty lame that He can be defeated by the colour yellow.
Sheldon: Only the modern green lantern is vulnerable to yellow.

Penny: Well, dead whore on TV, live one in real life.
Sheldon: Oh, great now she’s jumping up and down on the bed.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hu-u-u-uh…. Hu-u-u-uh!

Leonard: Problem?
Sheldon: This is Thai food.

Howard: Here we go.
Sheldon: We don’t have Thai food on Thursday. We have pizza on Thursday.

Leonard: Yes, but we all agreed that the third Thursday of every month would be Anything Can Happen Thursday.
Sheldon: Well apparently the news didn’t reach my digestive system, which, when startled, has its own version of Anything Can Happen Thursday.

Howard: Come on, the whole idea behind Anything Can Happen Thursday is to get out of this rut we’ve been in lately.
Sheldon: Rut? I think you mean consistency. And if we’re going to abandon that, then why even call it Thursday? Let’s call it Quonko Day and divide it into 29 hours of 17 minutes apiece, and celebrate it by sacrificing a goat to the mighty god Ra.

Leonard: Sheldon, we agreed we’d do something different tonight.
Sheldon: All right. Let’s go to the comic book store.

Raj: We went to the comic book store last night.
Sheldon: Last night was Wednesday. Wednesday is comic book night. Tonight, we’ll be going on Thursday, because it’s Anything Can Happen Thursday.

Howard: Really? Are you familiar with the Drake Equation?
Sheldon: The one that estimates the odds of making contact with extraterrestrials by calculating the product of an increasingly restrictive series of fractional values such as those stars with planets, and those planets likely to develop life? N equals R times FP times NE times FL times FI times FC times L?

Raj: You heard that, Ladies’ Night ladies? We’re eventually coming for you!
Sheldon: Fascinating.

Penny: Oh hey, guys, where’re you headed?
Sheldon: To the comic book store. You’re probably thinking, the comic book store? On a Thursday? Why, I’ve fallen down the rabbit hole and into a land of madness. What you have failed to take into account, Penny, is that this is Anything Can Happen Thursday.

Penny: You got me. While you’re there, could pick me up a few comics for my nephew’s birthday?
Sheldon: I think you mean comic books. Comics are feeble attempts at humour featuring talking babies and anthropomorphized pets found traditionally in the optimistically named funny pages.

Penny: I don’t know, he’s 13. Just pick out anything.
Sheldon: Just pick out anything? Maybe at the same time we can pick out a new suit for him without knowing his size, or pick out his career for him without knowing his aptitude, or pick out a new breakfast cereal without knowing his fibre requirements or his feelings about little marshmallows.

Penny: Spider-Man. Get him Spider-Man.
Sheldon: Amazing Spider-Man, Ultimate Spider-Man, Spectacular Spider-Man, The Marvelous Adventures of Spider-Man, Spider-Man 2099?

Penny: Ugh, that’s what I was trying to avoid.
Sheldon: Oh, I forgot Sensational Spider-Man.

Penny: Unlikely. Here, what about this one for my nephew?
Sheldon: A superb choice.

Penny: Oh, great.
Sheldon: Yeah, provided he has already read Infinite Crisis and 52, and is familiar with the re-establishment of the DC multiverse.

Penny: What’s a multiverse?
Sheldon: Get her out of here.

Howard: Let it go, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Why should I let it go? I saw it first.

Howard: Yes, but I saw it from the front.
Sheldon: A far less impressive feat.

Howard: Oh, come on! I need this for my Batman collection.
Sheldon: I need it for my Robin collection.

Howard: Rock-Paper-Scissors-Lizard-Spock?
Sheldon: Why would I gamble? It’s mine. Let go.

Howard: You let go.
Sheldon: No, you!

Leonard: Problem?
Sheldon: Yes, he won’t let go of my comic book.

Howard: It’s my comic book!
Sheldon: Leonard, we need a ruling.

Howard: I have got to learn how to draw. Hey!
Sheldon: Once again, defeated by your own prurient interests.

Penny: All right. So, um, just give me a call.
Sheldon: So, Leonard, how are you enjoying Anything Can Happen Thursday?

 
Sheldon: Look at that, that’s a dent. Thank you, Howard Ham-Fisted Wolowitz. Did you just shut the TV off in the middle of the classic Deep Space Nine/Star Trek The Original Series Trouble With Tribbles crossover episode?

Leonard: Apparently so.
Sheldon: Are you ill?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: All right. Then is it fair to say that you’re experiencing some sort of emotional turmoil over the events involving Penny earlier this evening?

Leonard: When did you pick up on that?
Sheldon: A moment ago, when you turned off the TV in the middle of }during the classic Deep Space Nine/Star Trek The Original Series Trouble With Tribbles crossover episode. Would you like some advice?

Leonard: Sure, why not?
Sheldon: Then, this is the perfect time to launch a blog with an interactive comments section.

Leonard: Gee, thanks a lot.
Sheldon: Would you rather I offer my personal insight?

Leonard: I don’t need any insights. I just want to know why Penny’s more interested in Stuart than me. We’re practically the same guy.
Sheldon: Oh, I disagree. Stuart is taller, artistic, self-employed and, most significantly, he gets 45 percent off comic books.

Leonard: You’re right, I really should be asking strangers on the Internet.
Sheldon: My original point.

 
Sheldon: Chinese food, vintage video games. After the nightmare of Anything Can Happen Thursday, this is Friday night the way it was meant to be.

Penny: It’s Friday night, that means Chinese food and vintage video games, right?
Sheldon: Vintage doesn’t even begin to describe what we have planned. Tonight, we are playing the classic 1980 interactive text adventure, Zork. It’s the buggy beta version.

Penny: Oh, you think coffee, means coffee, that is so sweet. Come on, I think I have decaf.
Sheldon: Oh, good, Stuart, I thought I heard your voice. Do you have a moment?

Penny: Sheldon, we’re a little busy here, so…
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Stuart: We’re having coffee.
Sheldon: Isn’t it a little late for coffee?

Stuart: What’s up?
Sheldon: Well, I’ve spent the last three hours in an online debate in the DC Comics Batman chatroom, and I need your help.

Stuart: Oh yeah. Those guys can be very stubborn. What’s the topic?
Sheldon: I am asserting, in the event that Batman’s death proves permanent, that original Robin, Dick Grayson, is the logical successor to the Bat Cowl.

Stuart: Ooh, Sheldon, I’m afraid you couldn’t be more wrong.
Sheldon: More wrong? Wrong is an absolute state and not subject to gradation.

Stuart: Of course it is. It’s a little wrong to say a tomato is a vegetable, it’s very wrong to say it’s a suspension bridge. But returning to the original issue, Dick Grayson became Nightwing, a superhero in his own right. Batman 2 has to be the second Robin, Jason Todd.
Sheldon: Has to be? Has to be? I hope you’re being deliberately provocative.

Stuart: Oh, great!
Sheldon: Yeah, herbal tea for me, please.

Stuart: I’m sorry, but you’re obviously stuck in a pre-Zero Hour DC universe.
Sheldon: Of course I am. Removing Joe Chill as the killer of Batman’s parents effectively deprived him of his raison d’être.

Stuart: Okay, you can throw all the French around you want, it doesn’t make you right.
Sheldon: Au contraire.

Stuart: Plus, you’re forgetting that the Infinite Crisis storyline restored Joe Chill to the Batman mythology.
Sheldon: I am forgetting nothing and I resent your tone.

Stuart: Okay, look, Sheldon, it’s late and I’ve got to get some sleep.
Sheldon: So, I win.

Stuart: No, I’m tired.
Sheldon: So, I win.

Stuart: Fine. You win.
Sheldon: Darn tootin’, I win.

Stuart: Penny, I really had a terrific time. Penny?
Sheldon: No, no, no, no, don’t wake her. She’ll maul you like a rabid wolverine.

Leonard: You got it.
Sheldon: That’s preposterous. I do not resemble C3PO. Don’t get me wrong, I’m flattered, I just don’t see it.

Howard (phone rings): Leslie Winkle. You’ve reached friends with benefits. For a booty call, press one now.
Sheldon: What exactly does that expression mean, friends with benefits? Does he provide her with health insurance?

Leonard: No. Look, imagine you maintained a friendship with someone you had sex with, but you were free to date whoever you wanted.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I can’t imagine any of that.

Leonard: Alright, back to the game.
Sheldon: I believe it’s my turn, you may begin your questions whenever you’re ready.

Raj: Are you Spock?
Sheldon: I don’t like this game.

Howard: She dumped me!
Sheldon: I bet he’s someone from Babylon 5, we’re never going to guess.

Howard: I don’t know. She just said Howard, momma’s a rolling stone. And then her call waiting beeped and she was gone.
Sheldon: I don’t understand. If you were in a non-emotional relationship then why are you having  what appears be an emotional response?

Howard: I don’t want to go anywhere.
Sheldon: You know, I’m given to understand that there is an entire city in Nevada designed specifically to help people like Howard forget their problems. Where  you can replace them with new problems such as alcoholism, gambling addiction and sexually transmitted diseases.

Leonard: Hey, Sheldon, are you coming?
Sheldon: I’d rather have a blowfly lay eggs and hatch larvae in my auditory canal.

Scene: The lobby.
Sheldon: Thank you. Hello, neighbour.

Penny: Hello, Sheldon.
Sheldon: And how are you doing this fine evening?

Penny: Great.
Sheldon: Good. I’m glad.

Penny: Really? Are you drunk?
Sheldon: I’m just in a good mood. While my compatriots are in Las Vegas, I will be enjoying a blissful evening in my personal Fortress of Solitude.

Penny: That’s Superman’s big ice thing, right?
Sheldon: Do you know, I’m such a good mood, I’m actually finding your tenuous grasp of the English language folksy and charming today.

Penny: Mmm, what smells so good?
Sheldon: That is the intoxicating aroma of Kadhai Paneer, a perfect culinary representation of the freedom this evening holds. Not only is it Indian cuisine, which Koothrappali loathes, it contains a generous helping of peanuts, which would reduce Wolowitz to a wheezing 97 pound blister. And finally, it’s main ingredient is Paneer, a farmer’s cheese which would cause Leonard to render any room uninhabitable within minutes.

Penny: Yum. Well, enjoy your big evening.
Sheldon: Penny. I realize you are also on your own tonight, so if at some point you find yourself with nothing to do, please do not disturb me.

Penny: Have fun, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, I shall. (Sings Superman theme while searching his pockets.) No!

Penny: Hang on, I think the emergency key is around here somewhere.
Sheldon: We have a bowl. Our keys go in a bowl. You should get a bowl.

Penny: So, how did the beautiful mind of Sheldon Cooper forget his key in the first place.
Sheldon: I left them in the bowl.

Penny: Oh-oh. I just remembered where the emergency key is.
Sheldon: Where?

Penny: In your apartment.
Sheldon: What’s it doing in my apartment?

Penny: Well, I went in there a few weeks ago when you guys weren’t home, and I forgot it there.
Sheldon: You were in my… why would you… what are you saying?

Penny: It’s not a big deal, I was making coffee and I ran out of milk.
Sheldon: You’re the milk thief! Leonard said I was crazy but I knew that carton felt lighter.

Penny: Alright, Sheldon, let’s just calm down and we’ll call the building manager, he’ll come open your door, you just eat your dinner here while you’re waiting.
Sheldon: Eat? My dinner? In your apartment?

Penny: Yeah, why not?
Sheldon: Sure, why not? And after the sun’s down we can all pile in my pick-up and go skinny-dipping down at the creek. ‘Cause today’s the day to stop making sense.

 
Sheldon: So, how was your day?

Penny: Are you trying to make small talk? Oh, sweetie, you really don’t have to.
Sheldon: No, it’s the accepted convention. How was your day?

Penny: Well, uh, they shifted my schedule around at the restaurant so my hours are going to be a little different…
Sheldon: I’m sorry, that’s not going to interest me at all, just eat.

 
Sheldon: Okay, that’s question 20, you have to guess.

Penny: Oh, God, I don’t know Sheldon, are you Star Wars?
Sheldon: How can one person be a whole movie?

Penny: Okay, I give up, can we just do something else?
Sheldon: Fine. I was Spock. Are you and Leonard friends with benefits.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Are you and Leonard friends with benefits?

Penny: Where did that even come from, did he say we were?
Sheldon: No, Leonard said nothing, but who knows what goes on over here when he pretends your mail was misdelivered.

Penny: No, just mail, no benefits.
Sheldon: Hmm, I see.

Penny: Why are you asking?
Sheldon: I’m curious about the whole social construct. On its face, the idea of satisfying ones sexual appetite, assuming one is afflicted with such, without emotional entanglement, that seems eminently practical. What I’ve observed, however, is Howard Wolowitz crying like a little girl.

Penny: Well, some people just can’t handle that kind of relationship.
Sheldon: Can you?

Penny: Excuse me?
Sheldon: Are you able to have sex with men without developing an emotional attachment?

Penny: Sheldon, I really don’t want to talk about this with you.
Sheldon: Is this conversation making you uncomfortable?

Penny: Of course it’s making me uncomfortable, can’t you tell?
Sheldon: I really have no idea. I don’t particularly excel at reading facial expressions, body language…

Penny: I’m uncomfortable, Sheldon!
Sheldon: Thank you, that’s very helpful.

Penny: I don’t think the manager’s coming tonight so, here.
Sheldon: Are you suggesting I sleep on the couch.

Penny: Well, it wasn’t the first suggestion that came to mind, but it’s the one I’m going with.
Sheldon: I can’t sleep on your couch. I sleep in a bed. And given it’s dimensions I have no intention of living out E.M. Snickering’s beloved children’s book , The Tall Man From Cornwall.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: There was a tall man from Cornwall whose length exceeded his bed. My body fits on it, but barely upon it, there’s no room for my big Cornish head.

Penny: Oh, alright. I will give you my bed on one condition. That you promise to zip your hole for the next eight hours.
Sheldon: May I say one last thing.

Penny: Only if it doesn’t rhyme.
Sheldon: Alright. Goodnight.

 
Sheldon: Penny.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: I can’t sleep. how are you going?

Penny: Maybe that’s because your hole is still open.
Sheldon: I’m homesick.

Penny: Your home is twenty feet from here.
Sheldon: Twenty feet, twenty light years, it doesn’t matter. It’s in a galaxy far, far away.

Penny: Damn it. What do you want me to do
Sheldon: Sing soft kitty.

Penny: That’s only for when you’re sick.
Sheldon: Homesick is a type of being sick.

Penny: Come on, do I really have to?
Sheldon: I suppose we can stay up and talk.

Penny: Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur. Happy kitty, um…
Sheldon: Sleepy kitty.

Penny: Sleepy ki…
Sheldon: No. Start over.

Penny: Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur. Happy kitty, sleepy kitty, purr, purr, purr.
Sheldon: Penny.

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Thank you for letting me stay here.

Penny: Oh, you’re welcome sweetie.
Sheldon: Okay, I’m sleepy now, get out.

 
Sheldon: Oh, good, you’re finally home.

Leonard: What were you doing at Penny’s?
Sheldon: Well, we had dinner, uh, played some games, and then I spent the night. Oh, you’ll be happy to know that I now have a much better understanding of friends with benefits.

 
Sheldon: Smell that? That’s the smell of new comic books. Oh, yes!

Howard: Is that supposed to be funny?
Sheldon: I believe it is. The combination of the Star Trek reference and the play on words involving the double-meaning of the verb to go suggests that Leonard is humorously mocking your efforts in space plumbing.

Raj: He’s right. This is an important achievement, for two reasons. Number one, and, of course, number two.
Sheldon: Oh, clever! Playing on the use of cardinal numbers as euphemisms for bodily functions.

Stuart: Here, Sheldon, I pulled the new Hellboy for you. It’s mind-blowing.
Sheldon: Excuse me, spoiler alert.

Stuart: I didn’t spoil anything.
Sheldon: You told me it’s mind-blowing, so, my mind is going into it pre-blown. And once a mind is pre-blown, it cannot be re-blown.

Stuart: I’m sorry.
Sheldon: Said the Grinch to Christmas.

Stuart: ‘Cause we’re going out again tomorrow.
Sheldon: Excuse me, Stuart. Have you read the new Flash?

Stuart: No.
Sheldon: Well, I have and it will knock your socks off! Good luck getting them back on.

Leonard: Oh. It’s Stuart.
Sheldon: You’re not going to answer it?

Leonard: He wants to talk about Penny. I don’t want to talk about Penny.
Sheldon: You’re making an assumption. Perhaps the comic book store is on fire, and he needs your assistance.

Leonard: Why would he call me?
Sheldon: We don’t know. And if you don’t answer the phone, we can’t know.

Leonard: I’m not answering the phone, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Answer the phone, Leonard.

Leonard: No! There, it went to voice mail.
Sheldon: Aren’t you going to check your messages?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: You have to check your messages, the leaving of a message is one half of a social contract which is completed by the checking of the message. If that contract breaks down then all social contracts break down and we descend into anarchy.

Leonard: It must be hell inside your head.
Sheldon: At times.

Howard: Guys, we have a code red.
Sheldon: Do you mean code red the hospital emergency alert, code red the computer worm, or code red the cherry flavoured soft drink from the makers of Mountain Dew?

Howard: It’s gonna fail after about ten flushes.
Sheldon: But the mission is for six months.

Howard: Yeah, see, that’s the code red. It’s kind of like a jack-in-the-box, no one knows exactly when, but at some point something way worse than a puppet is gonna pop out of that box.
Sheldon: Have you notified NASA?

Raj: I’m trying, but you have to admit this is pretty damn funny.
Sheldon: I agree. It’s the juxtaposition of the high-tech nature of space exploration against the banality of a malfunctioning toilet that provides the comic fodder here. Check your messages.

Raj: You mean so it doesn’t hit the fan?
Sheldon: Yeah, I have to say, I thought the toilet humour would get less funny with repetition. Apparently, there is no law of diminishing comedic returns with space poop. (There is a knock on the door)

Leonard: It wasn’t bad advice. It just wasn’t particularly helpful.
Sheldon: For what it’s worth, my mother says that when we deceive for personal gain, we make Jesus cry.

Scene: Later.
Sheldon: All right, what if we use this two-inch PVC to reinforce the centre cross-support?

Raj: Of course you feel terrible. You completely screwed up your karma, dude.
Sheldon: You don’t really believe in that superstition, do you?

Raj: Okay, look. Instead of trying to reinforce this structure here, what if we just ran another line, bypass it entirely?
Sheldon: It won’t work. The diameter of the tubing is insufficient.

Raj: What if we reposition the collection tank?
Sheldon: It won’t work. No way to mount it.

Howard: Okay, here’s an idea. What if I change my name and go live with my cousin and her husband Avi in Israel?
Sheldon: That could work.

Howard: Hang on, I think I’ve got this. Help me see if we can wedge this little piece of PVC behind the support rod.
Sheldon: You’re overestimating the tensile strength of the substructure you’re building.

Howard: Sheldon, I know what I’m doing.
Sheldon: If you knew what you were doing, there wouldn’t be a space toilet where my coffee table should be.

Leonard: Comic book store.
Sheldon: Oh, an excellent idea! I could certainly use a break.

Howard: Hold on, you can go to the comic book store when man can once again safely poop in space.
Sheldon: Why does Leonard get to go?

Howard: Damn right it’s heavy, it’s my mother’s meat loaf, it’s been testing toilets for generations.
Sheldon: I must say, Howard, I think a detailed letter to MIT describing your current circumstances might entitle you to a refund on your master’s degree.

Howard: Okay, simulated zero-gravity human waste disposal test with meat loaf analog in three, two, one. (Switches flush. Meatloaf hits ceiling.)
Sheldon: Fascinating.

Howard: Well, they’ve deployed our solution. Let’s just all hope it works.
Sheldon: I don’t see why I have to worry. My career’s not hanging in the balance. That was a joke. It’s funny, because it’s true.

Scene: The apartment. Leonard is working on a whiteboard.
Sheldon: Oh, boy.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I can’t comment without violating our agreement that I don’t criticize your work.

Leonard: Then what was oh, boy?
Sheldon: Great restraint on my part.

Leonard: There’s nothing wrong with the science here.
Sheldon: Perhaps you mean a different thing than I do when you say science.

Leonard (making a change): Okay, how’s that?
Sheldon: You actually had it right in the first place. Once again, you’ve fallen for one of my classic pranks. Bazinga! Well, now here’s a peculiar e-mail. The president of the university wants me to meet him at his office tomorrow morning at 8 a.m.

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: It doesn’t say. It must be an emergency. Everyone at the university knows I eat breakfast at eight and move my bowels at 8:20.

Leonard: Yes, how did we live before Twitter? I guess you’ll find out what it is in the morning.
Sheldon: That’s 14 hours away. For the next 840 minutes, I’m effectively one of Heisenberg’s particles, I know where I am or I know how fast I’m going, but I can’t know both. Yet how am I supposed to carry on with this huge annoying thing hovering over my head?

Scene: Outside Leonard’s bedroom.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s two o’clock in the morning.
Sheldon: Why is everybody keep telling me what time it is?

Leonard: Everybody?
Sheldon: You, the president of the university, his wife, their sullen teenage daughter. That entire family is fascinated by what time it is and whether people know it.

Leonard: You went to President Seibert’s house in the middle of the night?
Sheldon: He didn’t respond to my e-mail, his phone number is unlisted. Tell me what my other option was.

Leonard: You could have waited until morning. I know, look who I’m talking to.
Sheldon: Do you remember the grant proposal I submitted to the National Science Foundation to detect slow-moving monopoles at the magnetic North Pole?

Leonard: Hardly a day goes by when I don’t think about it.
Sheldon: Aw, how nice. Well, a space opened up at the last minute on the NSF expedition to the Arctic Circle.

Leonard: Wait a minute. He offered to send you to the North Pole?
Sheldon: Yes. In fact, he was quite enthusiastic. He said, “Frankly, if I could send you tonight, I would.”

Leonard: Okay, well, do you want to go?
Sheldon: Of course not. I’m a theoretical physicist, a career I chose in no small part because it’s indoors, but if I’m able to detect slow-moving magnetic monopoles there, I will be the scientist to confirm string theory. People will write books about me. Third-graders will create macaroni-art dioramas depicting scenes from my life.

Leonard: Sure, maybe a tableau of me trying to pummel you to death.
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Leonard: Maybe.
Sheldon: I’m on the horns of a dilemma. Can you imagine me, Sheldon Cooper, at the North Pole?

Leonard: Easy peasy, I’m doing it right now.
Sheldon: I’m not good with cold, Leonard. How often have we had to leave a movie theatre because I got a headache from drinking the Icee too fast? I can’t go.

Leonard: Well, then don’t go.
Sheldon: How can you say that? The scientific opportunity of a lifetime presents itself and my best friend says don’t go.

Leonard: All right, then go.
Sheldon: Listen to you. How can I possibly go?

Leonard: Sheldon, what are the words I can say right now to end this conversation and let me go back to sleep?
Sheldon: Odd, President Seibert posed the exact same question.

Leonard: How was it resolved?
Sheldon: It wasn’t. His wife set their dogs on me and rendered the question moot.

Raj: Our dreams are very small, aren’t they?
Sheldon: Good news, gentlemen, I have tentatively accepted…

All: Yeah! Woo-hoo!
Sheldon: …the invitation to join the Arctic Expedition.

Howard: Godspeed.
Sheldon: Thank you, but your sentiments may be premature.

Raj: Ooh, I don’t like where this is going.
Sheldon: I would like to propose that the three of you accompany me.

Howard: To the North Pole?
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: Is this just so we won’t touch your stuff while you’re away?
Sheldon: I’ll admit that was a concern. But the fact is, I’ll need a support team. And the three of you are my first choice.

Howard: Really?
Sheldon: Well, there are others who might be more qualified, but the thought of interviewing them gave me a stomach ache. Now, I know I’m proposing an enormous undertaking, so why don’t you take a few moments to discuss it?

Raj: Well, I’m a Hindu. My religion teaches that if we suffer in this life we are rewarded in the next. Three months at the North Pole with Sheldon and I’m reborn as a well-hung billionaire with wings!
Sheldon: Well, gentlemen, have you reached a decision?

Howard: Oh, damn it. Peer pressure. Fine.
Sheldon: Excellent. And just an FYI, as I am the expedition’s team leader, protocol dictates that be phrased fine, sir. But don’t worry, there will be a briefing.

Scene: Outside Penny’s door.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: What do you want?
Sheldon: I need access to the Cheesecake Factory’s walk-in freezer.

Penny: Now, honey, I already told you, the hamburger meat is fresh and stored at a safe temperature.
Sheldon: No. This is to train for a three-month expedition to the magnetic North Pole.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: I don’t know how that sentence could possibly confuse you, but to elaborate, I’m going to the Arctic Circle with Leonard, Wolowitz and Koothrappali.

Penny: You’re all going?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: For three months?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Excuse me.
Sheldon: Is that a yes or a no on the freezer? The woman has the attention span of a gnat.

Penny: Oh, hey, no, you don’t have to apologize. There’s no reason you have to tell me. I was just, you know, surprised.
Sheldon: Yes, yes, you were busy, you were surprised, all very fascinating. Now where do we stand on the freezer?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, but at what point do you put this see what you can do plan into action?

Leonard: Did she seem upset to you?
Sheldon: No. Did she seem upset to you?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Oh, good, I got it right. Are you upset?

Leonard: A little bit.
Sheldon: Two for two. I’m on fire.

Leonard: I mean, I know she’s not my girlfriend or anything, but wouldn’t you think she’d feel a little bad that I’m going to be gone for the whole summer?
Sheldon: That feels like a bonus question. I’m going to stop here while I’m ahead, but I’ve had a great time.

 
Sheldon: Alright, now the purpose of this drill is to acclimate us to the use of tools in extreme temperatures such as we will face in the Arctic Circle.

Howard: For this I went to MIT.
Sheldon: And begin.

Leonard: I can’t press any of the buttons with my gloves. Oh, son of a bitch!
Sheldon: Adversity is to be expected. Continue.

Raj: Me either.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, use your imagination. Innovate. Did Han Solo let Luke Skywalker freeze to death on the ice planet of Hoth? No. He cut open a tauntaun and used its internal body heat to warm him up.

Leonard: Hang on, I know I don’t possess the tools of leadership, but I don’t understand why we can’t assemble the equipment inside the hut and then take it outside.
Sheldon: I hadn’t thought of that. I guess we’re done here.

 
Sheldon: Here, drink slash eat this.

Leonard: What is it?
Sheldon: It’s hot chocolate with a stick of butter.

Howard: Okay, why?
Sheldon: Because in the frigid temperatures in the Arctic, we need to consume at least 5,000 calories a day just to maintain our body weight.

Leonard: Sheldon, you know I can’t eat butter. I’m lactose intolerant.
Sheldon: Way ahead of you, that’s an “I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter” stick.

Mrs Koothrappali: So, she has no problem with her son being eaten by a walrus?
Sheldon: That’s very unlikely, Mrs. Koothrappali. If Raj dies, it’ll be from frostbite, gangrene, acute sunburn or being ripped to shreds by a fifteen hundred pound polar bear.

Leonard: Sheldon, Sheldon?
Sheldon: I want a cookie, Meemaw.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s me.
Sheldon: But Meemaw just made cookies.

Leonard: Listen, I don’t know if I can go on the expedition.
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: I don’t think I can go to the North Pole.
Sheldon: Okay, Leonard, I know you’re concerned about disappointing me but I want you to take comfort from the knowledge that my expectations of you are very low.

Leonard: Yeah, that’s very comforting.
Sheldon: Comforting is a part of leadership. It’s not a part I care for, but such is my burden.

Leonard: Terrific, it’s just that I don’t think Penny wants me to go.
Sheldon: Assuming that’s a valid reason not to go, which it isn’t, how do you know this? Did she say it?

Leonard: Not exactly. But she said she was gonna miss me and she gave me this.
Sheldon: What is it?

Leonard: It’s a blanket with sleeves.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s clever. Let me see if I understand this correctly. Her missing you is an emotional state you find desirable?

Leonard: Yes, obviously.
Sheldon: All right. Well, given that missing you is predicated on you leaving, logic dictates you must leave.

Leonard: Yes, okay, but I’m gonna be gone for three months. What if she doesn’t miss me that long and she meets someone else?
Sheldon: She does have a short attention span.

Leonard: So, I can’t go.
Sheldon: Leonard, you may be right. It appears that Penny secretly wants you in her life in a very intimate and carnal fashion.

Leonard: You really think so?
Sheldon: Of course not. Even in my sleep-deprived state, I’ve managed to pull off another one of my classic pranks. Bazinga!

Leonard: We’re out of ice.
Sheldon: All right, men, we begin initial assembly and deployment of the testing equipment starting tomorrow at 0700 hours, but until then, you are all off duty. I suggest you keep the shenanigans to a minimum as medical help is 18 hours away by dogsled.

Howard: Yeah, wow.
Sheldon: It is remarkable.

Leonard: Dinner’s ready!
Sheldon: What are we having?

Leonard: Reconstituted Thai food.
Sheldon: Did you bring the dehydrated low-sodium soy sauce?

Leonard: Check.
Sheldon: Freeze-dried spicy mustard?

Leonard: Check.
Sheldon: Flash-frozen brown rice, not white?

Leonard: Uh, oh, sorry.
Sheldon: Not to worry. I hid it. Bazinga! You’re in my spot.

Howard: There’s no time for a crossbow. Find me an icicle.
Sheldon: Three months. This is gonna be great!

Scene: The apartment. Leonard enters, drops his keys in the bowl by the door, then collapses onto the settee. Sheldon enters from the bedroom area.
Sheldon: Good morning, Leonard.

Leonard: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: Yeah, we’re going to have to stop by Pottery Barn on the way to work, I bought these Star Wars sheets but they turned out to be much too stimulating to be compatible with a good night’s sleep. I don’t like the way Darth Vader stares at me.

Leonard: I’m not going to work.
Sheldon: Oh, just because your career’s been stagnant for a few years, that’s no reason to give up.

Leonard: Sheldon, I was up all night using the new free-electron laser for my X-ray diffraction experiment.
Sheldon: Did the laser accidentally burn out your retinas?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Then you can drive. Let’s go.

Leonard: Didn’t I tell you I’d be working nights, and that you’d have to make other arrangements.
Sheldon: You did.

Leonard: And?
Sheldon: I didn’t. Let’s go.

Leonard: Goodnight, Sheldon.
Sheldon: But how am I going to get to work?

Leonard: Take the bus.
Sheldon: I can’t take the bus any more. They don’t have seatbelts. And they won’t let you lash yourself to the seat with bungee cords.

Leonard: You tried to lash yourself to the seat with bungee cords?
Sheldon: I didn’t try, I succeeded. For some reason it alarmed the other passengers and I was asked to de-bus.

Leonard: Oh, you’re a big boy, you’ll figure it out.
Sheldon: Don’t talk to me like I’m a child. Now, take me to return my star wars sheets!

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny…

Penny (opening door): Sheldon, what is it?
Sheldon: Leonard’s asleep.

Penny: Thanks for the update (begins to close door.)
Sheldon: No, wait. You have to drive me to work.

Penny: Yeah, uh, I really don’t think I do.
Sheldon: But I don’t drive, and I can’t take the bus.

Penny: Yeah, honey, you’ll be fine as long as you don’t do that bungee cord thing, okay?
Sheldon: Penny. Didn’t you recently state that you and I are friends?

Penny: Yes, Sheldon, we are friends.
Sheldon: Then I hereby invoke what I’m given to understand is an integral part of the implied covenant of friendship. The favour.

Penny: Oh, dear God.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I didn’t realize I was interrupting your morning prayers. When you’re done, we’ll go.

Scene: Inside Penny’s car.
Sheldon: Thank you for driving me to work.

Penny: You know this is my day off, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, good. I’m not keeping you from anything. Your check engine light is on.

Penny: Mm-hmm.
Sheldon: Typically that’s an indicator. To, you know, check your engine.

Penny: It’s fine, it’s been on for, like, a month.
Sheldon: Well, actually, that would be all the more reason to, you know, check your engine.

Penny: Sheldon, it’s fine.
Sheldon: If it were fine, the light wouldn’t be on. That’s why the manufacturer installed that light, to let you know it’s not fine.

Penny: Uh, maybe the light’s broken.
Sheldon: Is there a “check the check engine light light”? (Penny takes a drink of coffee) O-o-o-oh!

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Studies have shown that performing tasks such as eating, talking on a cell phone or drinking coffee while driving reduces one’s reaction time by the same factor as an ounce of alcohol.

Penny: Do you have any alcohol?
Sheldon: Of course not.

Penny: Too bad.
Sheldon: You’re going up Euclid Avenue?

Penny: Mm-hmm.
Sheldon: Leonard takes Los Robles Avenue.

Penny: Well, good for Leonard.
Sheldon: Euclid Avenue is shorter as the crow flies, but it has speed bumps, which appreciably increase point-to-point drive time, making it the less efficient choice. But you have the conn. Of course, if you’re not going to slow down for the speed bumps, I withdraw my previous objection. Here’s a fun question. Do you know what the most common street name is?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: The answer’s tricky. It’s Second Street. You see, you’d think it would be First Street, but in most towns, First Street eventually gets renamed to something else, you know, like Main Street, Broad Street, Michigan Avenue. Leonard and I often use our commute time to exercise our minds  with brain-teasers like that. We also play games. Would you like to play one?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Oh, come on, it’s fun. Ooh! Another bump. Okay. I’ll say an element, and uh, you say an element whose name starts with the last letter of the one I said, okay? I’ll start. Helium. Now, you could say Mercury. That would give me a Y. Ooh.  Very clever, that’s a tough one. So I go Ytterbium, which gets you back to M. So you go Molybdenum, and I say Magnesium, you say Manganese, and  I say Europium, and, and you’re left with Mendelevium, and  there are no more M’s because I believe that Meitnerium should still be called Ekairidium, so congratulations, you win. Do you wanna go again?

Penny: How about we just have a little quiet time now?
Sheldon: All right. Hmm, huh, I’m sorry, I’m finding your reckless nonchalance regarding the check-engine light to be very troubling.

Penny (Pulling over): Get out.
Sheldon: Well, I have to tell you that while I do have a theoretical understanding of the workings of an internal combustion engine, I’m not sure I’m capable of performing diagnostics.

Penny: I said, get out.
Sheldon: Okay. I’ll give it a shot. (Gets out. Penny drives away.)

 
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard, there you are, I’m ready to go home.

Leonard: I just got here.
Sheldon: Good, perfect timing.

Leonard: Sheldon, I told you, I only have access to the free-electron laser at night. I can’t drive you for the next few weeks.
Sheldon: No, you said you couldn’t drive me to work, this is from work.

Howard: No, just for the fun of it, I’m gonna take his side.
Sheldon: Now, how do you propose I get home?

Leonard: How did you get here in the first place?
Sheldon: Penny. But I sense that’s no longer an option.

 
Sheldon: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa! Oh God, not Euclid Avenue! Aaaaaaaaaaaaaa!

Raj: Why did Howard leave you in the middle of the road anyway?
Sheldon: We had a difference of opinion.

Raj: Over what?
Sheldon: Whether or not he was trying to kill me. For the record, I maintain he was. Where are you going?

Raj: I’m taking you home.
Sheldon: Oh, but I’m not going home. It’s Wednesday, Wednesday is new comic book day, we have to go to the comic book store. And then we have to stop at Soup Plantation, it’s creamy tomato soup day, and Radio Shack, there’s a sale on triple-a batteries. Plus, we have to go to Pottery Barn and return my Star Wars sheets.

Raj: I have a better idea.
Sheldon: You want to go to pottery barn first?

 
Sheldon: Can you drive me to Pottery Barn? (She closes the door) Maybe if I turn off the night-light, I can keep the sheets.

 
Sheldon: Good morning.

Leonard: Sheldon, sit down.
Sheldon: She’s in my spot. Don’t look at me like that, everybody knows that my spot.

Leonard: So we made you an appointment, and we want you to keep it.
Sheldon: Department of motor vehicles new driver handbook? But I don’t have a problem.

Leonard: Penny’s taking you to the DMV, I’m going to bed.
Sheldon: Why Penny?

Penny: All right, come on Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hold on, I have one condition.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: We have to stop at Pottery Barn.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: And Radio Shack.

Penny: Fine.
Sheldon: And the comic book store.

 
Sheldon: I just don’t see why I need a driver’s license, Albert Einstein never had a driver’s license.

Penny: Yeah, and I never wanted to kick Albert Einstein in the nuts. You know, I gotta ask, why didn’t you just get a license at 16 like everybody else?
Sheldon: I was otherwise engaged.

Penny: Doing what?
Sheldon: Examining perturbative amplitudes in n=4 supersymmetric theories leading to a re-examination of the ultraviolet properties of multi-loop n=8 supergravity using modern twistor theory.

DMV Lady (to the person ahead of Sheldon in the queue): Take this to the testing area, put your name at the top, sign the bottom, answer the questions, bring it back, next! (Sheldon moves forward) Application?
Sheldon: I’m actually more of a theorist.

Howard: The application in your hand, give it to her.
Sheldon: Oh.

DMV Lady: Take this to the testing area, put your name at the top, sign the bottom, answer the questions, bring it back, next!
Sheldon: Excuse me, but I have some concerns about these questions.

DMV Lady: Look at that sign up there.
Sheldon: Yes?

DMV Lady: Does it say I give a damn?
Sheldon: No.

DMV Lady: That’s because I don’t.
Sheldon: Just, look, see, this first question makes no sense, how many car lengths should you leave in front of you when driving? There’s no possible way to answer that, a car length is not a standardized unit of measure.

Penny: Sheldon, it’s C, just put down C.
Sheldon: I don’t need your help, Penny.

DMV Lady: Listen to that little girl, honey, put C. Next!
Sheldon: No, no, wait, no, hang on, look at this next question.

Howard: Sheldon, why are you arguing with the DMV?
Sheldon: How else are they going to learn? Look, question 2, when are roadways most slippery? Now, okay, there are three answers, none of which are correct. The correct answer is, when covered by a film of liquid sufficient to reduce the coefficient of static friction between the tire and the road to essentially zero, but not so deep as to introduce a new source of friction.

DMV Lady: Here’s your learner’s permit. Go away.
Sheldon: But I’m not done. I have many additional concerns about these questions.

DMV Lady: Next!
Sheldon: Aced it.

Howard: This is a state-of-the-art simulator. I adapted it from something a friend of mine designed for the army.
Sheldon: Is that why I appear to be in downtown Fallujah, behind the wheel of an up-armored Humvee?

Howard: I haven’t configured it yet. Let’s see… Bradley tank… transport truck…  Batmobile…
Sheldon: Ooh!

Howard: What?
Sheldon: Statistically, red cars are stopped by police far more often than any other colour. I don’t want any hassles with the fuzz.

Howard: Fine, what colour do you want?
Sheldon: You know the pale blue of Luke Skywalker’s lightsaber, before it was digitally remastered?

Leonard: Okay, now, what you want to do first is turn on the ignition and shift into drive.
Sheldon: I haven’t fastened my seat belt yet.

Leonard: Okay, fasten your seat belt.
Sheldon: Click. Now, are there air bags?

Leonard: You don’t need air bags.
Sheldon: What if a simulated van rear-ends me?

(Sounds of car crashing. Penny hits Sheldon in face with pillow.)
Sheldon: Thank you.

 
Sheldon: Sorry… excuse me… my bad… student driver…

Leonard: How did you manage to get on the second floor of the Glendale galleria?
Sheldon: I don’t know. I was on the Pasadena freeway, I missed my exit, flew off the overpass, and one thing led to another.

Leonard: Maybe you want to give it a rest and try again tomorrow.
Sheldon: No. I quit. (Stands up. There is more sound of crashing and panic, then animal noises.)

Leonard: Aw, the pet store?
Sheldon: Remind me to compliment Wolowitz on the software, it’s amazingly detailed.

Leonard: So wait,you’re just gonna give up?
Sheldon: No, I’m not giving up, I never give up.

Leonard: So what is it you’re doing?
Sheldon: I’m transcending the situation. I’m clearly too evolved for driving.

Leonard: What does that mean?
Sheldon: Leonard, have you ever wondered why my little toes and lateral incisors are significantly smaller than the average for someone of my size?

Leonard: I wonder a lot of things about you, Sheldon, but not… not that.
Sheldon: Well, those are indicators that I’m farther along the evolutionary scale than the average human.

Leonard: No kidding.
Sheldon: Well, no, no, I’m not going to go so far as to say that I represent a distinct new stage in humankind, you know, a Homo Novus, if you will, no, that’s for anthropologists to decide. But I am convinced that the reason I cannot master the plebeian task of driving is because I’m not meant to.

Leonard: Yes, you are, you’re meant to learn how to drive. Please learn how to drive!
Sheldon: No, no. Leonard, I’m meant for greater things, like unraveling the mysteries of the universe, not determining when it’s safe to pass a stopped school bus on a country road.

Leonard: It’s never safe.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, I know that now.

Leonard: Fine. Assuming that everything you say is true, how does the biologically superior Homo Novus get to work tomorrow morning?
Sheldon: Homo Novus doesn’t know.

 
Sheldon: Good morning, gentlemen.

 
Sheldon: You saw nothing! (Sweeps hood around himself and vanishes through cafeteria door.)  

Raj: It was like a snowy nightmare from which there was no awakening.
Sheldon: I don’t know what Arctic expedition you guys were on, but I thought it was a hoot and a half.

Scene: The apartment door. Sheldon is on the phone.
Sheldon: Oh, hi mom. No, I told you I’d call you when I got home, I’m not home yet. (Walks through door) Alright, I’m home. The Arctic expedition was a remarkable success, I’m all but certain there’s a Nobel Prize in my future. Actually, I shouldn’t say that. I’m entirely certain. No, mother, I could not feel your church group praying for my safety. The fact that I’m home safe is not proof that it worked, that logic is Post Hoc Ergo Propter Hoc. No, I’m not sassing you in Eskimo talk.

Leonard: I’m going to go let Penny know we’re back.
Sheldon: Mother, I have to go. Yeah, love you. Bye. (To his spot) Hello, old friend. (Sits) Daddy’s home.

Scene: A moment later.
Sheldon: I just want you both to know, when I publish my findings, I won’t forget your contributions.

Raj: Thanks.
Sheldon: Of course, I can’t mention you in my Nobel acceptance speech, but when I get round to writing my memoirs you can expect a very effusive footnote, and perhaps a signed copy.

Raj: We have to tell him.
Sheldon: Tell me what?

Howard: Damn his Vulcan hearing.
Sheldon: You fellows are planning a party for me, aren’t you?

Howard: Okay, Sheldon, sit down.
Sheldon: If there’s going to be a theme, I should let you know that I don’t care for luau, toga or under the sea.

Howard: Yeah, we’ll keep that in mind, look, we need to talk to you about something that happened at the North Pole.
Sheldon: If this is about the night the heat went out, there’s nothing to be embarrassed about.

Howard: And we agreed to never speak of it again.
Sheldon: So we slept together naked. It was only to keep our core body temperatures from plummeting.

Howard: That’s why I added the tator. And then when we found our first positive data, you were so happy.
Sheldon: Oh, yes. In the world of emoticons, I was colon, capital D.

Raj: He just went colon, capital O.
Sheldon: You tampered with my experiment?

Raj: It was the only way to keep you from being such a huge Dickensian. You see that? I added the ensian.
Sheldon: Did Leonard know about this? Leonard’s my best friend in the world. Surely Leonard didn’t know.

Howard: Actually, it was his idea.
Sheldon: Of course it was. The whole plan reeks of Leonard.

Leonard: Me, neither. Except for one night when the heat went out. Long story, it’s… don’t ask.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard.

Leonard (whispering): Do not make a sound.
Sheldon: Whispering do not make a sound is a sound.

Leonard: Damn his Vulcan hearing. Not a good time, Sheldon.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. 

Penny: Oh, this is ridiculous. What?
Sheldon: Hello, Penny. I realize you’re currently at the mercy of your primitive biological urges, but as you have an entire lifetime of poor decisions ahead of you, may I interrupt this one?

Penny: It’s great to see you too. Come on in.
Sheldon: Wolowitz has informed me of your grand deception. Do you have anything to say for yourself?

Penny: Okay, can someone please tell me what’s going on here?
Sheldon: What’s going on is I was led to believe I was making groundbreaking strides in science, when in fact, I was being fed false data at the hands of Wolowitz, Koothrappali and your furry little boy toy.

Leonard: Because when he wasn’t happy, we wanted to kill him. There was even a plan. We were going to throw his Kindle outside, and when he went to get it, lock the door and let him freeze to death.
Sheldon: That seems like a bit of an overreaction.

Leonard: No, the overreaction was the plan to tie your limbs to four different sled dog teams and yell mush. Look, we kept the original data. You can still publish the actual results.
Sheldon: Yes, but the actual results are unsuccessful and I’ve already sent an e-mail to everyone at the university explaining that I have confirmed string theory and forever changed man’s understanding of the universe.

Leonard: Aw, see, yeah, you probably shouldn’t have done that. So write another e-mail, set the record straight, it’s no big deal.
Sheldon: You’re right, Leonard, it’s not a big deal. All you did was lie to me destroy my dream and humiliate me in front of the whole university. That, FYI, was sarcasm. I, in fact, believe it is a big deal

Penny: Hey. Do you want to talk?
Sheldon: About what? Being betrayed by my friends? Spending three months at the North Pole for nothing? And I didn’t even get to go to Comic-Con!

Penny: Oh, hon… Uh… (singing)  Soft kitty, warm kitty…
Sheldon: That’s for when I’m sick. Sad is not sick.

Penny: Oh. Sorry. I don’t know your sad song.
Sheldon: I don’t have a sad song. I’m not a child.

Penny: Well, you know, I do understand what you’re going through.
Sheldon: Really? Did you just have the Nobel Prize in waitressing stolen from you?

Penny: Well, no, but when I was a senior in high school, one of my friends heard I was going to be named head cheerleader. Oh, I was so excited. My mom even made me a celebration pie. Then they named stupid Valerie Mossbacher head cheerleader. Big ol’ slutbag.
Sheldon: Are you saying that you think a celebration pie is even remotely comparable to a Nobel Prize?

Penny: Well, they’re pretty tasty.
Sheldon: And on a different, but not unrelated topic, based on your current efforts to buoy my spirits, do you truly believe that you were ever fit to be a cheer leader?

Penny: Look, Sheldon, I just don’t think that the guys and Leonard really meant to hurt you. You know? They just told an unfortunate lie to deal with a difficult situation. Okay, you know what it’s like? Remember that scene in the new Star Trek movie when Kirk has to take over the ship, so he tells Spock all that stuff he knew wasn’t true, like saying Spock didn’t care his mom died?
Sheldon: I missed Comic-Con and the new Star Trek movie!

Leonard: Sheldon, why are you sitting by yourself?
Sheldon: Because I am without friends. Like the proverbial cheese, I stand alone. Even while seated.

Leonard: Come on. We said we were sorry.
Sheldon: It’s going to take more than I’m sorry and a store-bought apology pie from Penny to make up for what you’ve done to me.

Kripke (arriving): Hey, Cooper. Wead your wetwaction e-mail. Way to destroy your weputation.
Sheldon: You see? People have been pointing and laughing at me all morning.

Kripke: That’s not twue. People have been pointing and waughing at you your whole wife.
Sheldon: All right, I’ve had enough. Attention, everyone. I’ m Dr. Sheldon Cooper. As many of you in the physics department might know, my career trajectory has taken a minor detour.

Kripke: Off a cwiff.
Sheldon: My credibility may have been damaged…

Kripke: Compwetely wecked.
Sheldon: But I would like to remind you that in science, there’s no such thing as failure. There once was a man who referred to his prediction of a cosmological constant as the single biggest blunder of his career. That man’s name was, surprise, surprise, Albert Einstein.

Kripke: Yeah, but wesearch into Dark Energy pwoved that Einstein’s cosmowogical constant was actually wight all along, so you’re still, surpwise, surpwise, a woser.
Sheldon: Oh, you think you’re so clever. Well, let me just tell you, while I do not currently have a scathing retort, you check your e-mail periodically for a doozy.

Mrs Cooper: Here you go, Shelly.
Sheldon: Thanks, Mom.

Mrs Cooper: Hold your horses, young man. Here in Texas, we pray before we eat.
Sheldon: Aw, Mom.

Mrs Cooper: This is not California, land of the heathen. Gimme. By His hand we are all…
Sheldon: Fed.

Mrs Cooper: Give us, Lord, our daily…
Sheldon: Bread.

Mrs Cooper: Please know that we are truly…
Sheldon: Grateful.

Mrs Cooper: For every cup and every…
Sheldon: Plateful.

Mrs Cooper: Amen. Now, that wasn’t so hard, was it?
Sheldon: My objection was based on considerations other than difficulty.

Mrs Cooper: Whatever. Jesus still loves you.
Sheldon: Thank you for carving a smiley face in my grilled cheese sandwich.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, I know how to take care of my baby. His eyes came out a little thin, but you can just pretend he’s Chinese. So, do you want to talk about what happened with you and your little friends?
Sheldon: They’re not my friends.

Mrs Cooper: All right. If you recall, when you were little, we sat right here at this very spot and we talked about some of the problems you had getting along with the neighbour kids.
Sheldon: That was different. They were threatened by my intelligence and too stupid to know that’s why they hated me.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, good. I’ve been praying for you. Oh, Sheldon.
Sheldon: What are they doing here?

Mrs Cooper: You watch your mouth, Shelly. Everyone’s entitled to their opinion.
Sheldon: Evolution isn’t an opinion, it’s fact.

Mrs Cooper: And that is your opinion.
Sheldon: I forgive you. Let’s go home.

Howard: Sheldon, you’re wrong. Wolverine was not born with bone claws.
Sheldon: Howard, you know me to be a very smart man. Don’t you think if I were wrong, I’d know it?

Raj: Give it up, dude, you’re arguing with a crazy person.
Sheldon: I’m not crazy. My mother had me tested.

Howard: Okay, who had Leonard flames out with Penny in less than 24 hours”?
Sheldon: I did.

Howard: What’s there to learn? You get naked, do nasty things to each other, then somebody makes scrambled eggs and salami. Easy peasy.
Sheldon: Perhaps what Leonard is obliquely referring to is the occurrence of some sort of sexual dysfunction.

Raj: Okay, who had Leonard gets a floppy disk?
Sheldon: Oh, a clever, albeit obsolete, euphemism for insufficient blood flow to the male sex organ.

Raj: That’s because in your dreams you’re a horse from the waist down.
Sheldon: Excuse me, Wolverine: Origin. Miniseries issue two, page 22. Retractable bone claws. If you people spent less time thinking about sex and more time concentrating on comic books, we’d have far fewer of these embarrassing moments.

Leonard: Sheldon, dinner’s here.
Sheldon: Tandoori Palace?

Leonard: No, we went somewhere new.
Sheldon: You’re good-naturedly ribbing me, aren’t you?

Leonard: No, look, Mumbai Palace.
Sheldon: Why? Why would we change? We had a perfectly good palace. Tandoori Palace is our palace.

Leonard: I don’t know
Sheldon: I know. As I’m sure you’re aware…

Leonard: Duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
Sheldon: If that’s Morse code, that’s terrible. As I was saying, you and Leonard had a disappointing sexual encounter. Earlier this evening, Leonard characterized it as just fine. So what you’re seeing here is a continuation of the mocking that followed.

Leonard: Penny, wait. Aagh! What is wrong with you?
Sheldon: I sense I may have crossed some sort of line.

Raj: Whatever, dude. The point is, Leonard’s got one and you don’t.
Sheldon: Is this it? It was inappropriate to discuss Leonard and Penny’s sex life in front of Leonard and Penny. (Howard indicates that he has got it.) Oh, good! Now I can eat.

Howard: Sounds like a cricket.
Sheldon: Hang on. Based on the number of chirps per minute and the ambient temperature in this room, it is a snowy tree cricket.

Howard: Oh, give me a frickin’ break. How could you possibly know that?
Sheldon: In 1890, Emile Dolbear determined that there was a fixed relationship between the number of chirps per minute of the snowy tree cricket and the ambient temperature. A precise relationship that is not present with ordinary field crickets.

Raj: How do you know what the exact temperature of the room is?
Sheldon: Under the terms of my roommate agreement with Leonard, I’ve had unilateral control of the thermostat ever since the sweaty night of ’06.

Howard: Okay, you were right about Wolverine and bone claws, but you’re wrong about the cricket.
Sheldon: Howard, don’t embarrass yourself, the science chirps for itself. Humorous word play.

Raj: Oh, dude, you are never getting a shiksa goddess.
Sheldon: That is a snowy tree cricket. Oecanthus fultoni. I was done with Latin by fifth grade.

Howard: Okay, okay, tell you what. I am willing to bet anything that’s an ordinary field cricket.
Sheldon: I can’t take your money.

Howard: What’s the matter, you chicken?
Sheldon: I’ve always found that an inappropriate slur. Chickens are not, by nature, at all timid. In fact, when I was young, my neighbour’s chicken got loose and chased me up the big elm tree in front of our house.

Raj: Chickens can’t climb trees
Sheldon: Thank God.

Howard: Okay, I believe a chicken made you his bitch. But the cricket thing, I don’t buy. Bet me.
Sheldon: Fair enough. What stake do you propose?

Howard: I will put up my Fantastic Four number 48, first appearance of Silver Surfer against your Flash 123, the classic Flash of two worlds issue.
Sheldon: All right, you have a wager.

Scene: The apartment, the guys are still searching for the cricket. They are inside the cupboard.
Sheldon: I don’t see anything.

Raj: Hallway. (All try to exit at once and get stuck in doorway.)
Sheldon: One at a time. (Same thing happens again. Eventually they leave the apartment. There is a growling noise.) What was that?

Howard: Shh! Elevator shaft.
Sheldon: Help me open it.

Howard: Are you crazy? We can’t go down an empty elevator shaft.
Sheldon: Fine, if you don’t want to proceed, then you forfeit the bet, and I’ll take possession of your Fantastic Four.

Howard: Let’s open her up.
Sheldon: Are you bothered that I can so easily manipulate you?

Howard: Don’t push me, Sheldon. I may be small, but I took kung fu when I was 13, and I remember a good deal of it.
Sheldon: Oh, really? Well, I grew up with an older brother and a very contentious twin sister and I believe I could easily best you in any physical confrontation, be it noogies, swirlies or the classic why are you hitting yourself?

Raj: Be careful.
Sheldon: If I were not being careful, your telling me to be careful would not make me careful.

Raj (hearing the cricket): Stairwell.
Sheldon: Uh-oh, flashlight went out. I need some batteries. Fellas? Hello? It’s really dark down here.

Raj: Ugh, Toby, what did you do in a past life to be so disgusting now?
Sheldon: His name isn’t Toby. Toby is an absurd name for a cricket.

Raj: What would you name him?
Sheldon: An appropriate cricket name. For example, Jiminy.

Howard: All right, Sheldon, here we go, Kleingast’s Field Guide to North American Insects. Hey, Toby. Right here, see it? The common field cricket, aka Gryllus assimilis, which is Latin for suck it, you lose.
Sheldon: Hang on. Voilà, the snowy tree cricket, aka Oecanthus fultoni, which is Latin for I’ll suck nothing. Of course I’m joking because the Latin for that is nihil exsorbibo.

Raj: What happened?
Sheldon: Obviously another carnal fiasco with the shiksi goddess.

Howard: Shiksa. Shik-sa.
Sheldon: Forgive me. Yiddish was not spoken in east Texas. And if it was, it wasn’t spoken for long.

Howard: Yeah, fine, whatever. The point is, you’re wrong again.
Sheldon: We haven’t established that I’m wrong once.

Crawley tell us what kind of cricket Toby is.
Sheldon: He’s a snowy tree cricket, and his name is Jiminy. (They leave) 

Raj: Yeah, well, I don’t like bugs, okay? They freak me out.
Sheldon: Interesting. You’re afraid of insects and women. Ladybugs must render you catatonic. It was a joke. I made it to lessen your discomfort. You’re welcome

Prof Crawley (arriving): Don’t knock. Just walk in. Why be polite to the world’s leading expert on the dung beetle?
Sheldon: Excuse me, are you Professor Crawley?

Prof Crawley: Who wants to know?
Sheldon: I’m Dr. Cooper from the Physics Department.

Prof Crawley: Couldn’t wait, huh?
Sheldon: I’m sorry?

Raj: I’m from New Delhi. Maybe you should find another entomologist.
Sheldon: No, no. We’re here, let’s settle this. Professor, can you identify our cricket?

Prof Crawley: Toby? What a stupid name for a cricket.
Sheldon: Told you.

Howard: Yes!
Sheldon: No, no, wait. Dr. Crawley, are you sure?

Prof Crawley: Young man, I’ve been studying insects since I was eight years old. You know what they used to call me in school? Creepy Crawley.
Sheldon: Cruel as that may be, that is not in itself a credential.

Prof Crawley: Let me show you something. See that? That’s a Crawley’s dung beetle. I discovered it after spending six months slogging through a Bornean rain forest, while my wife was back home shacking up with a two-bit ornithologist who lives on a sailboat and likes to wear boot-cut jeans! So, when I tell you that that’s a common field cricket, you can take that to the damn bank! Cause God knows I can’t. That tramp took me for everything!
Sheldon: Well, apparently, I was wrong. Congratulations.

Penny: Oh, hey, Sheldon. What you got there? A new comic book?
Sheldon: Old comic book. I just retrieved it from my safe deposit box.

Penny: What do you have a safe deposit box for?
Sheldon: Old comic books. I lost this to Wolowitz in an ill-considered cricket wager.

Penny: What, do they have Wii cricket now? That can’t be very popular.
Sheldon: Penny, I’d rather not talk about it.

Penny: Well, if it makes you feel any better, I’m not feeling so hot either.
Sheldon: Why would that make me feel better?

Penny: I don’t know, empathy? Anyway, I’m just saying that you’re feeling upset about something with Howard, and I’m upset about something with Leonard.
Sheldon: Yes, yes, the disappointing sex. That’s an inexact parallel. You and Leonard can always return to being friends, whereas I can never return to a state in which Wolowitz has not bested me like Mrs. Riley’s chicken.

Penny: What’s Mrs. Riley’s chicken?
Sheldon: A chicken that was owned by Mrs. Riley.

Penny: Okay, forget the chicken.
Sheldon: Well, I wish I could.

Penny: No, no. You may be right about me and Leonard.
Sheldon: Of course I’m right What are the odds I’d be wrong twice in one week?

Penny: No, I mean, we can always go back to being friends.
Sheldon: I just said that. This conversation has started to circle. Meeting adjourned.

Scene: The apartment
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Hey. What’s going on?
Sheldon: Oh, you’d like to catch up on the events of the day. All right. Well, there was a half-hour wait at the bank to get into my safe deposit box, I was forced to talk to Penny about your sexual problems, and, oh, yes, in a moment filled with biblical resonance, pride wenteth before my fall, causing my Flash 123 to goeth to Wolowitz.

Leonard: Wait a minute. You talked to Penny about our sex life?
Sheldon: Leonard, it astonishes me how you continually fixate on the trivial. I lost a bet to Wolowitz.

Leonard: Right, right. You’re saying you talked to Penny?
Sheldon:  Yes.

Leonard: Interesting.
Sheldon: Hardly.

Leonard: Excuse me.
Sheldon: Have I crossed some sort of line again?

Leonard: Little bit. (Exits)
Sheldon: Hmm. Oh, who cares?

Penny: Morning, Sheldon. Come dance with me.
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Why not?
Sheldon: Penny, while I subscribe to the many worlds theory which posits the existence of an infinite number of Sheldons in an infinite number of universes, I assure you that in none of them am I dancing.

Penny: Are you fun in any of them?
Sheldon: The math would suggest that in a few I’m a clown made of candy. But I don’t dance.

Penny: All right, want some French toast?
Sheldon: It’s Oatmeal Day.

Penny: Tell you what, next French Toast Day, I will make you oatmeal.
Sheldon: Dear Lord, are you still going to be here on French Toast Day?

Leonard: Morning.
Sheldon: Look, Leonard, Penny made French toast.

Leonard: Sorry. I haven’t given her your schedule yet.
Sheldon: It’s an iCal download, she can put it right in her phone. And I thought we agreed that you’d have your conjugal visits in her apartment.

Leonard: We did, but there were extenuating circumstances.
Sheldon: I see. Did her abysmal housekeeping skills finally trump her perkiness?

Leonard: No, her bed kind of… broke.
Sheldon: That doesn’t seem likely. Her bed’s of sturdy construction. Even the addition

Penny: Sorry. Okay, who wants syrup and who wants cinnamon sugar?
Sheldon: I want oatmeal.

Penny: Yes, well, I want a boyfriend whose roommate isn’t a giant pain in the ass.
Sheldon: I’m sure that will happen soon enough. But in the meantime, I still want oatmeal.

Penny: You know what, I give up. He’s impossible.
Sheldon: I can’t be impossible. I exist. I believe what you meant to say is, “I give up, he’s improbable.”

Leonard: Sheldon, you really need to find a better way of dealing with Penny.
Sheldon: What am I supposed to do, eat French toast on a Monday? Now, that would be impossible.

Leonard: I’m just saying, you can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
Sheldon: You can catch even more flies with manure. What’s your point?

Leonard: It’s a… (gives up)
Sheldon: Boy, that does smell good. Too bad it’s Monday.

Penny: I know. What are the odds?
Sheldon: Easily calculable, we begin by identifying the set of married couples with unisex names. We then eliminate those unqualified for restaurant work, the aged, the imprisoned and the limbless, for example. Next we look at…

Leonard: Sheldon! it’s an amazing coincidence, can we leave it at that?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Ooh, Penny, it’s as if the Cheesecake Factory is run by witches.

Penny: Fine, whatever. Are you finished?
Sheldon: Well, thank you. How thoughtful. Would you like a chocolate

Leonard: What was that?
Sheldon: You said be nice to Penny. I believe offering chocolate to someone falls within the definition of nice.

Leonard: It does. But in my experience, you don’t.
Sheldon: There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.

Howard: They’re called tattoo sleeves. Look. I bought them online, Raj got a set, too. Fantastic, right? Put them on, have hot sex with some freaky girl with her business pierced, take them off, and I can still be buried in a Jewish cemetery.
Sheldon: You know, I’ve always wanted to go to a goth nighclub.

Howard: Really?
Sheldon: Bazinga! None of you ever see my practical jokes coming, do you?

Penny: They’re gonna get beaten up at Walgreens. Oh, sorry, Sheldon, I almost sat in your spot.
Sheldon: Did you? I didn’t notice. Have a chocolate.

Leonard: Oshikuru: Demon Samurai.
Sheldon: And it’s not a cartoon, it’s anime.

Penny: Anime. You know, I knew a girl in high school named Anna May. Anna May Fletcher. She was born with one nostril. Then she had this bad nose job and basically wound up with three.
Sheldon: You’re here a lot now.

Penny: Oh, am I talking too much? I’m sorry. Zip.
Sheldon: Thank you. Chocolate?

Leonard: Okay, I know what you’re doing.
Sheldon: Really?

Leonard: Yes, you’re using chocolates as positive reinforcement for what you consider correct behaviour.
Sheldon: Very good. Chocolate?

Leonard: No, I don’t want any chocolate! Sheldon, you can’t train my girlfriend like a lab rat.
Sheldon: Actually, it turns out I can.

Leonard: Well, you shouldn’t.
Sheldon: There’s just no pleasing you, is there, Leonard? You weren’t happy with my previous approach to dealing with her, so I decided to employ operant conditioning techniques, building on the work of Thorndike and B.F. Skinner. By this time next week, I believe I can have her jumping out of a pool, balancing a beach ball on her nose.

Leonard: No, this has to stop now.
Sheldon: I’m not suggesting we really make her jump out of a pool. I thought the “bazinga” was implied. I’m just tweaking her personality, sanding off the rough edges if you will.

Leonard: No, you’re not sanding Penny.
Sheldon: Are you saying that I’m forbidden from applying a harmless, scientifically valid protocol that will make our lives better?

Leonard: What could she possibly be talking about for so long?
Sheldon: Obviously, waitressing at the Cheesecake Factory is a complex socioeconomic activity, that requires a great deal of analysis and planning. Bazinga! You know, using positive reinforcement techniques, I could train that behaviour out of her in a week.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: If you let me use negative reinforcement, I can get it done before we go to bed.

Leonard: You’re not squirting her in the face with water.
Sheldon: No, of course not. We’re talking very mild electric shocks. No tissue damage whatsoever.

Leonard: Forget it.
Sheldon: Oh, come on, you can’t tell me that you’re not intrigued about the possibility of building a better girlfriend.

Leonard: I’m not. And Penny’s qualities, both good and bad, are what make her who she is.
Sheldon: You mean, like that high-pitched, irritating laugh?

Leonard: You’re not changing how Penny laughs.
Sheldon: No, that would be incongruous, I was going to lower the whole voice to a more pleasing register.

Penny (entering): Uh, sorry guys, that girl is (high pitched) freaky!
Sheldon: Come again?

Penny (lower voice): Yeah, freaky.
Sheldon: Have a chocolate.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Well, I’m going to make some warm milk and then turn in. I trust if you two are planning in engaging in amorous activites, you’ll keep the decibel level to a minimum.

Penny: Of course.
Sheldon: Thank you. (Throws a chocolate. Penny catches it in her mouth)

Leonard: Let’s go.
Sheldon: Interesting. Sex works even better than chocolate to modify behaviour. I wonder if anyone else has stumbled on to that.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: This movie baffles me every time we watch it.

Leonard: What do you mean?
Sheldon: Well, the instructions are very clear, don’t feed the gremlins after midnight, don’t get the gremlins wet. How hard is that?

Howard: Ooh, we’re honey now, are we?
Sheldon: Yes. Since their relationship became carnal, Penny has upgraded his designated term of endearment, thus distinguishing him from those she calls sweetie, usually in an attempt to soften a thinly-veiled insult.

Penny: You’re boring people sweetie.
Sheldon: Although, sometimes, she omits the veil entirely.

Penny: Okay. What do you watch on Thanksgiving?
Sheldon: The parade.

Leonard: Oh. I’ll be there.
Sheldon: Will you be serving cranberry jelly or cranberry sauce?

Penny: I guess I could serve both.
Sheldon: You guess? You don’t seem to have much of a handle on this.

Leonard: What do you mean, he’s getting deported?
Sheldon: I believe it means that the U.S. Government is going to expel him from the country. He could then either return to his native India, emigrate to another country that’s willing to accept him, or wander the high seas as a stateless pirate. Personally, I’d choose pirate.

Penny: Ugh, fine. But the man really needs to work on his girl issues.
Sheldon: Another reason to consider a life of piracy. Even today, I understand that’s an all-male profession.

Raj: You know, checking e-mail, updating my facebook status, messing up wikipedia entries. Hey, did you know Netflix lets you stream movies on your computer now?
Sheldon: And you’ve continued to take the university’s money under false pretences? Highly unethical for an astrophysicist. Although practically mandatory for a pirate.

Raj: Yeah let me start practicing for it. Do you want fries with that Maharaja Mac?”
Sheldon: Hi, Leonard. Hello, Raj.

Raj: Hello Sheldon.
Sheldon: Forgive me, as you know, I’m no adept at reading facial cues, but I’m going to take a stab here, you’re either sad or nauseated.

Raj: I’m sad.
Sheldon: I was going to say sad. I don’t know why I hedged.

Raj: What are you eating?
Sheldon: Elbow macaroni with ground hamburger and tomato sauce.

Raj: We believe cows are gods.
Sheldon: Not technically. In Hinduism, cattle are thought to be like God.

Raj: Do not tell me about my own culture, Sheldon! In the mood I’m in, I’ll take you out, I swear to cow!
Sheldon: I’m sorry.

Raj: Me, too. I’m just, I’m a little on edge.
Sheldon: Understandable. Your entire life seems to be crumbling around you, and your future appears bleak at best.

Raj: Thank you.
Sheldon: And you’re wrong about Hinduism and cows.

Raj: I’m on it.
Sheldon: That’s happy, right?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Nailed it.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Raj, did you get the job with Professor Laughlin?

Raj: No.
Sheldon: I assumed as much. But never fear. Like the subordinate male protagonist in countless action movies who disappears half way through the second reel, I have returned to save the day. Odd, usually, he’s met by cheers. Anyway, I was thinking about exploring the string theory implications of gamma rays from dark matter annihilations, and it occurred to me that I could benefit…

Leonard: Excuse me, Sheldon, how many reels before the subordinate male protagonist gets to his point?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, if you didn’t cheer at my entrance, it’s too late to buy into the premise. Anyway, I got some extra money from the head of the department, and raj can come work for me.

Raj: You want me to work with you?
Sheldon: For me. You’re going to have to listen more carefully when you’re on the job.

Raj: Okay, uh, please don’t take this the wrong way, but I’d rather swim buck-naked across the Ganges with a paper cut on my nipple and die a slow, agonizing death from a viral infection than work with you.
Sheldon: For me.

Raj (knocking and entering): Sheldon, are you busy?
Sheldon: Of course I’m busy.

Raj: Shall I wait?
Sheldon: Yes, please. (After about 30 seconds) How may I help you?

Raj: I’ve reconsidered your offer to let me work with you.
Sheldon: For me.

Raj: Yes, for you. I do, however, have a few conditions. First, at all times, I am to be treated as a colleague and an equal. Second, my contributions shall be noted in all published material. And third, you are never allowed to lecture me on Hinduism or my Indian culture.
Sheldon: I’m impressed, Raj. Those are very cogent and reasonable conditions.

Raj: Thank you.
Sheldon: I reject them all.

Raj: Then you leave me no choice. I accept the job.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I believe you’ve misunderstood. I’m not giving you the job. I’m simply affording you the opportunity to apply for it. Have a seat, we’ll get started with the interview.

Raj: Wha… You’re kidding!
Sheldon: Please.

Raj: All right.
Sheldon: So, that’s what you wear to an interview?

Raj: Come on, dude, we’ve been friends for years.
Sheldon: Oh, pulling strings, are we?

Raj: Sheldon, for God’s sakes, don’t make me beg.
Sheldon: Bazinga! You’ve fallen victim to another one of my classic practical jokes. I’m your boss now. You may want to laugh at that.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: All right, we’re going to be designing an experiment to look for the annihilation spectrum resulting from dark matter collisions in space.

Raj: Ooh, dark matter. We better bring a flashlight. I was making a joke.
Sheldon: I’m the boss. I make the jokes.

Raj: Sorry, go ahead and make your joke.
Sheldon: This is not the time for joking. We’re doing serious research, which requires complete and utter focus.

Raj: Sheldon.
Sheldon: What?

Raj: I need an aspirin.
Sheldon: Top desk drawer.

Raj: Thank you.
Sheldon: Alright?

Raj: Yes.
Sheldon: Good.

Raj: No, no, no, no! That rate is much too low for what we’d expect from this collision. Do you understand that we’re talking about dark matter colliding in outer space?
Sheldon: Of course I understand. And who are you to tell me about outer space?

Raj: I’m the astrophysicist. Astro means space.
Sheldon: Astro means star.

Raj: Okay, well, let me just tell you, if we were having this argument in my native language, I’d be kicking your butt.
Sheldon: English is your native language.

Raj: Okay, you got me there, but you’re wrong about this!
Sheldon: There is a fine line between wrong and visionary. Unfortunately you have to be a visionary to see it.

Raj: My god, you think that every thought that comes out of your head is pure gold. Well, let me tell you something. Some of those thoughts are pure caca.
Sheldon: Caca?

Raj: It means doo-doo.
Sheldon: All right! First of all, Dr. Koothrappali, when I first proposed that you work with me…

Raj: Aha! So I am working with you.
Sheldon: In this context, with me means for me.

Raj: Ah, well, in this context… (blows raspberry)
Sheldon: Oh! If I’m wrong, prove it.

Raj: Okay. Here’s where we derive the mass of the dark matter particle.
Sheldon: No, no, no, you’ve misstated the atomic weight of the target.

Raj: Let me finish.
Sheldon: You’re defacing my work.

Raj: I’m not defacing it, I’m fixing it.
Sheldon: Give me the eraser.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: I said give it to me.

Raj: Come and get it.
Sheldon: Fine. (Uses hand as an eraser. Then realises his hand is dirty) Oh, lord. Dr. Koothrappali, as your superior, I forbid you from writing on my board!

Raj: You are not my superior.
Sheldon: I am in every way.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Raj. (Knock, knock, knock) Raj. (Knock, knock, knock) Raj.

Raj: I’m busy.
Sheldon: Doing what? (Performs finger trick again) All right, you’ve made your point.

Raj: What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: I looked over the board and it turns out you were right.

Raj: So you were wrong.
Sheldon: I didn’t say that.

Raj: That’s the only logical inference.
Sheldon: Nevertheless, I didn’t say it. Anyway, I would like you to come back and work for me.

Raj: For you or with you?
Sheldon: In this context for me could mean with me.

Raj: All right, but I have some conditions.
Sheldon: I reject them all.

Raj: I’ll take the job. See you Monday.
Sheldon: Wait, you have to drive me home.

Raj: How did you get here?
Sheldon: I walked.

Raj: So walk home.
Sheldon: I can’t. There’s a big dog outside. On the way home, we can start thinking about methods of optimizing the detector for 500 GEV particles.

Penny: Which one?
Sheldon: It doesn’t matter. You can’t possibly win.

Penny: How could he ruin the game?
Sheldon: Given the cards that have already been played, Penny can only be holding necromancer potions, which are only effective against wraiths and day-walkers, and there are no more of either left to be drawn. The cards remaining in the undrawn stack are four fire weapons, a troll, two ogres and the jewel of Osiris.

Penny: Sheldon, that is incredible.
Sheldon: From your vantage point, it certainly must seem so.

Leonard: Sheldon has kind of a photographic memory.
Sheldon: Photographic is a misnomer. I have an eidetic memory, as I’ve told you many times. Most recently last year during lunch on the afternoon of may seventh. You had turkey and complained it was dry.

Leonard: Yeah, I don’t remember that.
Sheldon: June 30th, 2004. Opening day of Spider-man 2 at the AMC Pasadena. They only had red icees, no blue.

Raj: Hey, how come I wasn’t part of this deal?
Sheldon: You had left the refreshment stand in order to indulge in your customary preemptive pre-show urination.

Leonard: Oh, damn it. Can I have a napkin?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, no.

Leonard: But you have a whole bunch of ’em.
Sheldon: Yes, I’ve moved to a four-napkin system. Lap, hands, face and personal emergencies. If you like, starting tomorrow, I’ll add a guest napkin, but I’m afraid there’s nothing I can do for you today. (Leonard steals a napkin) Good luck. That’s the face napkin.

Raj: Hey, Sheldon, guess what I heard today?
Sheldon: I’d imagine you heard any number of things today. When you arrived at work you undoubtedly heard, hello, Raj, how are you, Raj? Given that you’re wearing a new sweater-vest, you may have heard new sweater-vest? And possibly, though far less likely, nice sweater-vest.

Raj: Why don’t I just tell you what I heard today.
Sheldon: That would probably save us some time.

Raj: Saturday night at the comic book store, they’re having a Mystic Warlords of Ka-ah tournament. First prize is five hundred dollars. If we team up, we’d be unstoppable.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Raj, but I have no interest in playing a game in which I find no challenge.

Raj: What about the money?
Sheldon: I have money.

Raj: But this is other money.
Sheldon: How does it different from the money I have?

Raj: Half of it will be mine.
Sheldon: Do you need it to buy a less disturbing sweater-vest?

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Betty and Veronica? Ugh.

Stuart: Hey, Sheldon, the new Green Lantern figurine’s coming in tomorrow. Want me to set one aside for you?
Sheldon: Thank you. You just robbed me of the opportunity to stumble upon the figurine and make the oh-so-satisfying journey from discovery to desire to possession.

Stuart: All right, I won’t set one aside for you.
Sheldon: But I must have it.

Stuart: Okay, I’ll set one aside for you.
Sheldon: Thank you. You know, I can buy all these things online. I come here for the personal service.

Stuart: Yeah, he lives around here. Big gamer.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Are you saying that Wil Wheaton aka Ensign Wesley Crusher on Star Trek:

Stuart: Oh, I’m sorry, did I rob you of the opportunity to stumble onto that for yourself?
Sheldon: You don’t understand. Growing up, I idolized Wil Wheaton? Wesley Crusher had an eidetic memory just like me.

Raj: Oh, what a coincidence. Maybe you can discuss that with him while you’re playing in the tournament. Sign here.
Sheldon: I was such a fan that in 1995, I travelled ten hours by bus to a sci-fi convention in Jackson, Mississippi, wearing my Star Fleet Academy cadet uniform in order to meet Wil Wheaton and get him to autograph my mint in-package Wesley Crusher action figure.

Raj: Ooh, it’ll be like a reunion then. Sign here.
Sheldon: My arduous journey, however, was for naught. Although advertised to appear, he did not show up. It was at that moment, I vowed eternal hatred for Wil Wheaton.

Raj: Okay, great, you can tell him you hate him. Sign here.
Sheldon: It might also interest you to know that Wil Wheaton currently ranks sixth on my all-time enemies list, right between director Joel Schumacher, who nearly destroyed the Batman movie franchise, and Billy Sparks, who lived down the street from me and put dog poop on the handles of my bicycle.

Raj: Okay, I get it, he’s a bad guy. Sign here.
Sheldon: In the words of Khan Noonien Singh in the immortal wrath of Khan, he tasks me, he tasks me and I shall have him.

Raj: No doubt, sign here.
Sheldon: From hell’s heart, I stab at thee.

Raj: Sheldon, it’s your play. Sheldon.
Sheldon: My enchanted troll bludgeons your screaming harpy with a cursed mace. Game.

Raj: Sorry, boys. Say hi to your mother when she picks you up. Or I could just tell her later tonight! We pwned them, dude! Up top!
Sheldon: Look at him. Wil Wheaton, my old friend, I have chased you round the moons of Nibia and round the Antares maelstrom and round perdition’s flames!

Raj: You know you keep quoting Wrath of Khan, but he was in next generation. It’s a totally different set of characters.
Sheldon: Silence! How much longer must I wait for my revenge?

Raj: Well, if Wil Wheaton and Stuart win their match and we beat lonely Larry and Captain Sweatpants in the next round, we’ll face off for the championship.
Sheldon: So, my path to satisfaction is blocked by lonely Larry and Captain Sweatpants. Very well. They must be destroyed.

Raj: Dude, you have to stop talking like that. It’s really lame.
Sheldon: Silence!

 
Sheldon: I play my endless serpent. Raj will play ecstatic frenzy, which means Larry will have to play chaos overlord, then Captain Sweatpants, molten river. I play nightshade dryad, game, set and match. Now fetch me Wil Wheaton! bortaS bIr jablu’DI’ reH QaQqu’ nay’

Wil Wheaton: Underworld guardian.
Sheldon: Underworld guardian. We skirmish to the death.

Wil Wheaton: Invisibility spell.
Sheldon: Luminescence spell.

Wil Wheaton: Water nymph.
Sheldon: Fire demon.

Wil Wheaton: Two-headed tiger.
Sheldon: Three-headed lion.

Wil Wheaton: Sulphur.
Sheldon: Brimstone.

Wil Wheaton: Hang on.
Sheldon: You’re holding two moderate spell cards, a small rock and a potion of Zancor, which will be about as much help as an air conditioner on the ice planet Hoth. Your only move is to play the potion, lose the skirmish, and two moves later, the game.

Wil Wheaton: I think he’s got me.
Sheldon: The year was 1995, the place, Jackson, Mississippi. Having spent ten hours on a bus, during which I had to twice violate my personal rule against relieving myself on board a moving vehicle, I finally arrived at the fourth annual Dixie-Trek convention only to find that my idol Wil Wheaton decided he had better things to do than to show up and sign my action figure.

Wil Wheaton: What?
Sheldon: You betrayed me, Wil Wheaton. Now I have my revenge.

Wil Wheaton: You went to the ’95 Dixie-Trek? Oh, dude, my grandmother had just died, and I had to go to her funeral.
Sheldon: Your mee-maw died? That’s terrible.

Wil Wheaton: Yeah, it was. But I’m really sorry that I disappointed you.
Sheldon: No, no, I understand. Anything happened to my mee-maw, I’d be one inconsolable moon pie. I should clarify that statement by explaining that she calls me moon pie.

Wil Wheaton: It’s special relationship, isn’t it, between a boy and his grandmother?
Sheldon: Oh, yes.

Raj: What are you waiting for? Kill Wil Wheaton! From hell’s heart, stab at him!
Sheldon: I can’t.

Raj: Sure you can. Do it! Do it!
Sheldon: No. I came here to defeat Wil Wheaton, the man who destroyed my dreams. But I can’t defeat Wil Wheaton, the man who loved his mee-maw. Enchanted bunny.

Wil Wheaton: I call my mee-maw nana. And she’s going be very happy to hear that my small rock kills your enchanted bunny. Game over, moon pie.
Sheldon: I… I… I don’t understand. Your grandmother’s alive?

All three: Kites, ho!
Sheldon: Excuse me. You’re misusing the word ho. It’s an interjection used to call attention to a destination, not an object, as in, uh, Land, ho! Or, uh, Westward, ho!

Leonard: Oh, yeah. It’s an extremely competitive, cutthroat sport.
Sheldon: Well, actually, the risk of throat cutting is very low. On the other hand, severe string burn is a real and ever-Present danger.

Leonard: Well, this sucks.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I got bored and drifted off. Where exactly in the interaction did the sucking lie?

Raj: Leonard just realized that Penny’s been hiding him from her friends because he’s a tiny, little man who flies kites.
Sheldon: Oh, that certainly would suck.

Scene: The park.
Sheldon: Wolowitz is trying to outflank us. Let out some string, add altitude and I’ll go under and cut his line.

Leonard: Why wouldn’t Penny want her friends to meet me?
Sheldon: Focus, Leonard, focus! The heat of battle is upon us, the dogs of war are unleashed.

Leonard: Maybe Koothrappali’s right, maybe I embarrass her.
Sheldon: You’re embarrassing me right now, a grown man worrying about such nonsense when in the middle of flying kites.

Leonard: Sorry.
Sheldon: Sorry won’t bring their kites down. Ow! String burn! String burn!

Raj: Wait, what are you doing? I can’t scissors by myself! Howard! Come back!
Sheldon: Victory!

Leonard: So, Penny doesn’t want me around her friends, I embarrass her. What else could it be?
Sheldon: Well, her actions could be out of concern for your feelings. Perhaps she’s excluded you from these gatherings because she’s scouting for a new mate and doesn’t want to do it in front of you.

Leonard: Oh, how kind of her.
Sheldon: Agreed. Most primates don’t show that sort of discretion. A female bonobo will copulate with a new male in front of the old one without so much as a how do you do?

Raj: With a woman you were chasing through a park? That’s not a shot, that’s a felony. What’s worse, it cost me my prized Patang fighting kite. Sheldon, I don’t suppose there’s any chance you could give me my kite back?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Raj, but the rules of aerial warfare dictate at the fallen kite go to the victor. And without rules, the competition has no meaning. And without meaning, the following would be an empty gesture. (Sings) I have your kite. I have your kite.

Leonard: Sacks, sacks…
Sheldon: It’s football nomenclature for when a quarterback is tackled behind the line of scrimmage.

Leonard: Huh… Scrimmage…
Sheldon: The line of scrimmage is the imaginary transverse line separating the offence from the defence.

Leonard: Sheldon, how do you know this stuff?
Sheldon: I grew up in Texas. Football is ubiquitous in Texas. Pro football, college football, high school football, peewee football, in fact, every form of football except the original, European football, which most Texans believe to be a Commie plot.

Leonard: Unbelievable.
Sheldon: If you’re interested, I also know all about frying meat that isn’t chicken as if it were chicken.

Leonard: So you could teach me?
Sheldon: Football or chicken-fried meats?

Leonard: Football. I’m going to Penny’s on Saturday to watch a game with her friends and I don’t want to look like an idiot. I want to blend in.
Sheldon: If you want to blend in with Penny’s friends, I’d think looking like an idiot would be the perfect camouflage.

Leonard: Come on, Sheldon, please teach me about football. It’ll be fun.
Sheldon: That’s exactly what my father said. Come to the games, watch the games, week in and week out from the time I was five until I went off to college. Longest seven years of my life.

Leonard: Please, I’m asking you as a friend.
Sheldon: Are you making this a tier one friendship request?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Fine.

Leonard: I really appreciate this.
Sheldon: Yeah, yeah. All right, Poindexter, sit down, shut up and listen.

Leonard: I’m sorry?
Sheldon: That’s how my father always began our football conversations. And if you’d like, after the game, I’ll take you outside and teach you how to shoot close enough to a racoon that it craps itself.

Leonard: When are you going to stop making Cylon toast?
Sheldon: When I have enough to destroy all the human toast on the battlestar known as Galactica. Is that what you’re wearing to watch football at Penny’s?

Leonard: What’s wrong with a football jersey?
Sheldon: Nothing. That, however, appears to be a football cocktail dress.

Leonard: I’s the smallest size they had, except the one for dogs. I can’t believe they had one for dogs.
Sheldon: Oh, yes. Canine football fans are a common sight in Texas. Cats, however, refuse to wear sporting apparel. My sister found that out the hard way.

Leonard: Anyway, wish me luck.
Sheldon: Leonard, wait. Am I correct in assuming that your attempt to be accepted by Penny’s peers is based on your desire to ensure your continuing mating privileges with her?

Leonard: Well, I wouldn’t put it exactly that way.
Sheldon: How would you put it?

Leonard: Yeah, okay, like you said.
Sheldon: Huh. Seems like an awful lot of trouble to go through for intercourse. Don’t you have access to women who will do it for money? By the way, another accepted usage for the term ho.

Leonard: Good-Bye, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hold on I believe that social convention dictate you not arrive empty-Handed. Would you like to bring some Cylon toast?

Leonard: Yeah, no, I’m trying to fit in, not get laughed at.
Sheldon: What’s funny about Cylon toast?

Penny: I know. I just need you stop talking.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: Sheldon, come in.
Sheldon: Thank you. I’d like to make a sandwich, but I’m out of bread.

Penny: There’s some in the fridge.
Sheldon: You shouldn’t keep your bread in the refrigerator. Staleness is caused by crystallization of the starch molecules, which occurs faster at cool temperatures.

Penny: On Earth, we say thank you.
Sheldon: So Leonard, how goes the mimesis?

Leonard: Mimesis?
Sheldon: You know. Mimesis. An action in which the mimic takes on the properties of a specific object or organism. Mimesis.

Leonard: What the hell are you talking about?
Sheldon: I’m attempting to communicate with you without my meaning becoming apparent to those around you. Let me try again. Have the indigenous fauna accepted you as one of their own? Nudge, nudge, wink, wink.

Leonard: Oh, I guess so.
Sheldon: Good. Oh, FYI. After I eat my sandwich, I’m taking Koothrappali’s Patang kite out for a test run. Would you like to get your delta-wing raptor and join me?

Leonard: I don’t want to fly kites, Sheldon. We’re watching football here.
Sheldon: I can see that. I was providing you with an alternative. A courtesy I was never offered in similar circumstances.

Penny: Wow, Sheldon, I cannot believe you made up your own game.
Sheldon: Oh, Research Lab is more than a game. It’s like the slogan says, the physics is theoretical, but the fun is real.

Penny: All right, five. One, two, three, four, five. Oh, wow, look at that, my Department of Defence research grant is renewed.
Sheldon: Oh! Great roll! Now you can demolish your Soviet-style cyclotron and build the large Hadron Collider.

Penny: Yay.
Sheldon: You’re a natural at this, Penny. And as the first beta testers, you two’ll have quite the edge when we play with Wolowitz and Koothrappali on Sunday.

Leonard: Oh, gee, Sheldon, I don’t think we can play on Sunday.
Sheldon: Why not?

Penny: My friend, Justin.
Sheldon: Pay attention, Leonard. That’s why she can’t play on Sunday.

Leonard: Who is this Justin?
Sheldon: Your turn, Leonard.

Leonard: No, you didn’t.
Sheldon: Roll the dice, Leonard.

Penny: Yeah, my friend from Omaha, plays the guitar. Anyway, he’s coming to L.A. looking for some session work, so I told him he could just crash on my couch for a few weeks.
Sheldon: Come on, Leonard, if you roll a six, Penny dies horribly in a nuclear meltdown. See what I mean when I say the fun is real?

Leonard: Okay, not to be pedantic, but the last I checked went out was in fact the past tense of going out, which I think we all know is a popular euphemism for saw each other naked.
Sheldon: I’ll just roll for you.

Leonard: What was your first clue?
Sheldon: Uh-oh! Industrial accident.

Leonard: I’m not talking to you like you’re an idiot! I’m saying the whole idea is idiotic!
Sheldon: You accidentally stare at a helium-argon laser. Lose one turn and a retina.

Penny: How is that not talking to me like I’m an idiot? It’s my friend, it’s my couch, and it’s my freakin’ life!
Sheldon: It’s also your roll.

Leonard: I heard of ’em. Didn’t know they were a band. Sheldon, she’s gone. You can turn off the blender.
Sheldon: Has your relationship reached its inevitable ugly end?

Leonard: No, we just had a little spat.
Sheldon: Look on the bright side. As the result of Penny’s forfeit, you have become the world’s first winner of Research Lab. Would you like a commemorative snow cone?

Leonard: I don’t get how she can just announce that an old boyfriend is going to be sleeping on her couch.
Sheldon: Hey, I thought of a game we can play in the car.

Leonard: I don’t want to play a game, Sheldon.
Sheldon: It’s called Scientists. Now, I will name three scientists, then you will put them in order of the size of their contribution to their respective fields. To make this game even more compelling, you must consider only the contribution of the man to the field, not the validity of the field itself. For example, Abu Musa Jabir ibn Hayn made a greater contribution to the discredited field of alchemy than Halbert Vanderplatt made to neurobiology. Okay, ready to have some fun?

Leonard: An old boyfriend who’s definitely not gay. That’s what a guy likes to hear, definitely.
Sheldon: All right, I’ll start with an easy one, um, Isaac Newton, Madame Curie and Niels Bohr.

Leonard: And then I say one little thing and I end up being the bad guy!
Sheldon: Hint, Madame Curie had her husband to help her.

Leonard: What am I supposed to say? Sure, Penny, I’m cool with your old boyfriend sleeping in your apartment. Well, Leonard, it doesn’t matter if you’re cool or not because I’m Penny and I’m pretty and I can do whatever the hell I want! Oh, I get it! You think you’re doing me a favour just by being in a relationship with me! No, no, Leonard! I’m doing you a favour just by being in the same room as you!
Sheldon: Leonard! Stop the car!

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I can’t listen to the two of you fight anymore.

Scene: Leaving the apartment.
Sheldon: Come on, come on, we’re late.

Leonard: Calm down, we’ll make the movie.
Sheldon: I believe my alarm is appropriate, given the situation. The movie starts in 17 minutes, which means we’ll need to make all the lights on Colorado Boulevard, plus skip the concession stand, and preshow urination.

Raj: Oh, dude, I wish you had said something before I pounded that last Red Bull.
Sheldon: Go, go, Power Rangers, go!

Leonard: Hey. We’re, uh, going to the movies.
Sheldon: No, we’re not. We’re standing in the hallway, suffering through an awkward encounter.

Penny: Not really, no.
Sheldon: All right, invitation pointlessly offered, invitation declined as expected, everyone’s civil, nobody’s fighting. Have a nice evening.

Howard: Yeah, I don’t think I need my preshow urination anymore.
Sheldon: Leonard, when that woman moved in three years ago I told you not to talk to her, and now look, we’re going to be late for the movies.

Howard: Hey! Look! Amazing Spider-Man 183.
Sheldon: Got it.

Raj: You brought your mother into this!
Sheldon: Stop it, both of you. All this fighting, I might as well be back with my parents! Damn it, George, I told you if you didn’t quit drinkin’ I’d leave you! Well, I guess that makes you a liar, ’cause I’m drunk as hell and you’re still here! Stop yelling! You’re making Sheldon cry! I’ll tell you what’s making Sheldon cry! That I let you name him Sheldon.

Penny: Oh, thank you very much. Come back soon. With the other half of my tip. Hey, Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: This is a restaurant. It’s lunchtime. I would think, as a waitress, you’d be familiar with the paradigm.

Penny: Is Leonard coming?
Sheldon: No, I believe Leonard is waiting for you to come crawling back to him and apologize.

Penny: Well, that’s not gonna happen.
Sheldon: I assumed that would be your attitude. Hence, my true purpose in coming here.

Penny: Which is?
Sheldon: I want you to crawl back to him and apologize.

Penny: I’m busy.
Sheldon: Excuse me, miss. I’d like to order lunch.

Penny: Fine. What do you want?
Sheldon: I have a few questions. First, I notice that you offer soup and a half-sandwich?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Where exactly does the half-sandwich come from? Are you giving me half of someone else’s sandwich, or do I have to wait for someone else in the restaurant to order the other half?

Penny: No, no, Sheldon, they just make a half-sandwich.
Sheldon: You can’t make a half-sandwich. If it’s not half of a whole sandwich, it’s just a small sandwich.

Penny: Okay, fine, it’s soup and a small sandwich. Is that what you want?
Sheldon: Of course not. I’ll have my usual.

Penny: Great.
Sheldon: Aren’t you going to ask me if I want a beverage?

Penny: Don’t you usually get lemonade?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Do you want lemonade?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Anything else?
Sheldon: Yes, I want you to apologize to Leonard.

Penny: I am not going to apologize. I’ve done nothing wrong. He is completely overreacting.
Sheldon: Irrelevant. The disruption in your relationship is making my life intolerable.

Penny: Well, I’m sorry, Sheldon, but this really isn’t about you.
Sheldon: I don’t follow.

Penny: Yeah, yeah, I’ll be right there. Look, Sheldon, I have to go.
Sheldon: All right, let’s assume, ad argumentum, that in this case, Leonard is wrong.

Penny: Leonard is wrong.
Sheldon: Considering the number of transgressions you’ve committed that he’s overlooked, don’t you think that, just this once, you could return the favour?

Penny: I’m coming. Goodbye, Sheldon. What do you mean, transgressions I’ve committed?
Sheldon: Were you under the impression that Leonard has no complaints about you?

Penny: Like what? Yeah, yeah, I see you, you’re making a little cheque sign in the air, I got it, just hold your horses. What does Leonard complain about?
Sheldon: Your driving, the plethora of stuffed animals on your bed that stare at him during your amorous activities, your constant tardiness, your singing.

Penny: My singing?
Sheldon: That’s actually from my list, but Leonard would be a fool if he didn’t agree with it.

Penny: Okay, if Leonard has so many problems with me, why hasn’t he just said so?
Sheldon: Because, according to him, you’re oversensitive and have a temper.

Penny: Oh, really? Well, then, do me a favour and tell Leonard that he can drop dead!
Sheldon: And she wonders why she’s constantly undertipped.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Oh, good, you’re home. I need you to do me a favour.

Leonard: Sure.
Sheldon: Go apologize to Penny.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Right now would be good.

Penny (knocking): Leonard!
Sheldon: Although, a few minutes ago would have been better.

Scene: Raj’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Raj. (Knock, knock, knock) Raj. (Knock, knock, knock) Raj.

Leonard: It’s a little hard to explain. He does this thing where he pretends he’s in an alternate dimension that occupies the same physical space we’re in, but he can’t perceive us.
Sheldon: Don’t flatter yourself. I’m just ignoring you.

Penny: Come on, Sheldon, let’s go home. Look, we’re done fighting.
Sheldon: I’ve heard that before, but then, the next thing you know I’m hiding in my bedroom, blaring a Richard Feinman lecture while my mom is shouting that Jesus would forgive her if she put ground glass in my dad’s meatloaf, and my dad’s on the roof skeet-shooting her Franklin Mint collectible plates.

Penny: Okay, there’s going to no more shouting and no skeet-shooting.
Sheldon: Really? Where’s your friend Justin going to sleep?

Penny: You know, how about we buy you this robot, and then we all go home?
Sheldon: I want that one.

Penny: Buy him the robot, Leonard.
Sheldon: Can I get this comic book, too?

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is in his spot. Beside him, a long haired bearded person is asleep. There is a guitar propped up on the arm of the sofa.
Sheldon: I should have asked for much more than a comic book and a robot.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Sheldon’s log, stardate 63345.3. While my colleagues are off observing the Leonid meteor shower, I have remained behind to complete my paper on the decays of highly excited massive string states. Although my research is going well I do miss the warmth of human companionship. (He laughs)

 
Sheldon: And good evening to you, Siam Palace. This is Sheldon Cooper. Yeah, I’m going to be dining alone this evening, so I’ll be reducing my usual order. I’d like to start with one quarter of the assorted appetizers plate and, uh, one half of the golden treasure for two. Oh, for heaven’s sake, in the mid-18th century, King Rama IV of Siam divided a huge empire amongst the colonial powers of Europe in order to preserve his throne. Surely, you, his cultural descendant, can handle pad thai and dumplings.

Penny (voice off): Sheldon help!
Sheldon: I need to go, but you keep in mind that my sharply worded comments on yelp.com recently took down a local muffin store. (At Penny’s door, knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny..

Penny: Come in! Hurry!
Sheldon: Penny?

Penny: I’m back here.
Sheldon: (At Penny’s bedroom door, knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny..

Penny: Oh, for god’s sakes, I’m in the bathroom!
Sheldon: Shall I come back at a better time?

Penny: Get in here! Hurry! Don’t you dare knock.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: I slipped in the shower, and I think I dislocated my shoulder.
Sheldon: Not surprising. You have no safety mat or adhesive stickers to allow for purchase on a surface with a low coefficient of static friction.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Tubs are slippery.

Penny: I know. I slipped.
Sheldon: I have a series of whimsical duck stickers on the bottom of my tub.

Penny: Yeah, okay, whatever. Will you just turn the water off and help me up?
Sheldon: They’re holding umbrellas.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: The ducks in my tub.

Penny: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: They’re whimsical because ducks have neither the need for, nor the ability to use umbrellas.

Penny: Oh, my god. I got to go to the emergency room.
Sheldon: Well, assuming you’re correct that your right humerus is no longer seated in the glenoid socket, I would certainly think so.

Penny: Okay, can you drive me?
Sheldon: I don’t drive.

Penny: Well, I can’t drive!
Sheldon: Well, it seems we’ve reached an impasse.

Penny: Ow.
Sheldon: But I could call you a cab or an ambulance.

Penny: No, no, no, I can’t wait that long, you got to help me, please.
Sheldon: All right. Let it never be said that Sheldon Lee Cooper ignored the pleas of a damsel in distress.

Penny: No one’s saying that. Let’s go.
Sheldon: Well, it does seem rather ironic that for want of 99-cent adhesive ducks, we both might die in a fiery car crash.

Scene: Penny’s bedroom.
Sheldon: I see no organizational system in here whatsoever. Which panties do you wear on Mondays?

Penny: I don’t need panties, I just need shorts and a shirt.
Sheldon: My mother always told me one should wear clean underpants in case one is in an accident.

Penny: One was already in an accident.
Sheldon: That doesn’t mean one won’t be in another, especially if I’m driving.

Penny: Clothes, Sheldon. I need clothes!
Sheldon: Okay, here.

Penny: Seriously? Those shorts with that top?
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: No… No… Oh, that’s cute.
Sheldon: We should have you checked for a concussion.

Penny: Okay, now, you got to help me put these on.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: But don’t look.
Sheldon: Don’t look?

Penny: I don’t want you to see me naked.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, that’s understandable. You may be interested to know that a prohibition against looking is well established in heroic mythology. Uh, Lot and his wife, Perseus and Medusa, Orpheus and Eurydice.

Penny: Yeah, great.
Sheldon: They always look. It never ends well.

Penny: Ok, now you gotta help me get my arm into the sleeve.
Sheldon: Ok.

Penny: Is that my arm?
Sheldon: It doesn’t feel like an arm.

Penny: Then, maybe you should let it go.
Sheldon: All righty.

Scene: Penny’s car.
Sheldon: For the record, I should let you know this is my first time driving an actual motor vehicle.

Penny: You have your learner’s permit, right?
Sheldon: Yes, and I have logged a considerable number of hours on a simulator.

Penny: Good.
Sheldon: Didn’t work out well.

Penny: All right, can we please go?
Sheldon: One moment. According to my driver’s ed book, a side mirror is properly adjusted when a portion of the is driver’s door handle is visible in the lower right corner. There’s the handle. Oh, no, too far, bringing it back. Optimized. Now, where is the switch to adjust the passenger side mirror?

Penny: It’s right there.
Sheldon: Where is the passenger side mirror?

Penny: In a parking lot in Hollywood. Now, can we please go?
Sheldon: Yes. As soon as I adjust my seat. Whee! Oh, dear. I’m going to have to start again.

Penny: Could you please drive a little faster?
Sheldon: Oh, I think we’re going sufficiently fast. What’s that?

Penny: Nothing. The engine does that sometimes.
Sheldon: That can’t be nothing, the check engine light is on. We need to find a service station.

Penny: No. The light has been on since I bought the car.
Sheldon: All the more reason to consult with a mechanic before it explodes.

Penny: It’s not going to explode, just keep driving. Warp speed ahead, Mr. Spock.
Sheldon: Mr. Spock did not pilot the Enterprise. He was the science officer, and I guarantee you that if he ever saw the Enterprise’s check engine light blinking, he would pull the ship over immediately.

Penny: Oh, god, I’m gonna lose the arm.
Sheldon: Oh, oh, red light, release accelerator and slowly apply the brake. Nailed it. While we have a moment, may I ask you a question?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Why do you have the Chinese character for soup tattooed on your right buttock?

Penny: It’s not soup, it’s courage.
Sheldon: No, it isn’t. But I suppose it does take courage to demonstrate that kind of commitment to soup.

Penny: How did you see it? You said you wouldn’t look.
Sheldon: Sorry. As I told you, the hero always peeks.

Scene: The hospital waiting room.
Sheldon: All right, there’s no need to bark at me. According to the inexplicably irritable nurse behind the desk, you’ll be seen after the man who claims to be having a heart attack, but appears to be well enough to play Doodle Jump on his iPhone. We have to fill these out. Describe illness or injury.

Penny: I dislocated my shoulder.
Sheldon: All right. And how did the accident occur?

Penny: You ready know that.
Sheldon: Cause of accident, lack of adhesive ducks. Okay, medical history. Have you ever been diagnosed with diabetes?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Kidney disease?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Migraines?

Penny: Getting one.
Sheldon: Are you currently pregnant?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Are you sure? You look a bit puffy.

Penny: Change migraine to yes.
Sheldon: When was your last menstrual period?

Penny: Oh, next question.
Sheldon: I’ll put, in progress. Okay, moving to psychiatric disorders, list all major behavioural diagnoses, e.g. depression, anxiety, etcetera.

Penny: Oh, my god, what the hell does this have to do with my stupid shoulder?
Sheldon: Episodes of sub psychotic rage.

Penny: Ass.
Sheldon: Possible Tourette’s. All right, moles, lesions or other skin conditions. Soup tattoo on right buttock.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon, Sheldon, look, I am scared and in a lot of pain. Could you please just take a break from being you for just a minute and try being, I don’t know, comforting?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. There, there. Everything’s going to be fine. Sheldon’s here.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: Now remember, you were given powerful pain medication and a muscle relaxer, so, uh, don’t operate heavy machinery. Try not to choke on your own drool.

Penny: Wait. You have to help me get into bed. Sheldon has to get me into bed. Bet you never thought I’d say that.
Sheldon: Yes. The charm of your drug addled candour knows no bounds.

Penny: You know, people think you’re this weird robot man who’s so annoying all the time, and you totally are, but then it’s like that movie Wall-E at the end. You’re so full of love, and you can save a plant and get fat people out of the floaty chairs.
Sheldon: That’s a fairly laboured metaphor, but I appreciate the sentiment behind it.

Penny: Sing “Soft Kitty” to me.
Sheldon: “Soft Kitty” is for when you’re sick. You’re not sick.

Leonard: The cultural paradigm in which people have sex after three dates.
Sheldon: I see. Now, are we talking date, the social interaction, or date, the dried fruit?

Leonard: Never mind, what’s your announcement?
Sheldon: Oh, good, my turn. Well, this is very exciting and I wanted you to be among the first to know…

Kripke: Hey, Cooper, I hear you’re going to be on the wadio with Ira Fwatow from Science Fwiday next week.
Sheldon: Thank you, Kripke, for depriving me of the opportunity to share my news with my friends.

Kripke: My pweasure.
Sheldon: My thank you was not sincere.

Kripke: But my pweasure is. Let me ask you a question, at what point did National Public Wadio have to start scwaping the bottom of the bawwel for its guests? Eh, don’t answer, it’s wetowical.
Sheldon: Why are you such a stupid head? That is also rhetorical. I’m sorry you had to hear that.

Leonard: Are you really going to be on NPR?
Sheldon: Yes, they’re interviewing me by phone from my office, regarding the recent so-called discovery of magnetic monopoles in spin-ices. It’s pledge week and they’re trying to goose the ratings with a little controversy.

Leonard: Very cool, congratulations.
Sheldon: Thank you. My mother is very excited. She’s convening her Bible study group to listen in, and then pray for my soul.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: All right. These are the talking points for my NPR interview tomorrow. I need to make sure that they’re simple enough for the less educated in the audience to understand. Howard, look this over and tell me what’s unclear to you.

Howard: Excuse me, I have a master’s degree in engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It required the completion of 144 units of grad work and an original thesis.
Sheldon: Yes. Look this over and tell me what’s unclear to you.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: All right, you know what, I will tell you why it’s wrong…
Sheldon: Excuse me, may I interject?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Biologically speaking, Howard is perfectly justified in seeking out the optimum mate for the propagation of his genetic line.

Howard: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Now, whether that propagation is in the interest of humanity is, of course, an entirely different question.

Radio: Thanks for being with us today, Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: My pleasure, Ira.

Ira: Now, let’s talk about magnetic monopoles. Can you explain to our audience just what a monopole is?
Sheldon: Of course. First, consider an ordinary magnet which has, (the pitch of his voice begins to rise) as even the most uneducated in your audience must know, two poles, (pitch rises further) a north and south pole. If you cut that in half, you have two smaller magnets, each with its own north and south pole.

Scene cuts to university cafeteria where Kripke is holding up the radio for all to listen. 
Sheldon: A requirement for string theory, or M-theory, if you will, is the existence of such monopoles. I, myself, led an expedition to the Arctic Circle in search of said particles. Kripke, I found the nozzle! I’m going to kill you!

Leonard: How ya doin’, buddy?
Sheldon: I was humiliated on national radio. How do you think I’m doing?

Leonard: Come on, it wasn’t that bad.
Sheldon: What do you want?

Leonard: Okay, so Kripke played a joke on you.
Sheldon: It wasn’t funny.

Raj: You laughed.
Sheldon: Did you laugh?

Leonard: I fell on the floor. All right, he got you, you can get him back.
Sheldon: I refuse to sink to his level.

Leonard: Are you really admitting defeat?
Sheldon: I never admit defeat.

Leonard: Good.
Sheldon: However, on an unrelated topic, I am never getting out of this bed again.

Raj: That’s true. He didn’t just stay there and talk about his feelings with the other psychotic villains. He, he broke out and poisoned Gotham’s water supply.
Sheldon: Well, I suppose I could poison Kripke.

Leonard: No, no.
Sheldon: It’s a simple matter. There are several toxic chemicals that’d be untraceable in an autopsy.

Leonard: Okay, uh, that’s the spirit, but, um, let’s dial it back to a non-lethal form of vengeance.
Sheldon: Oh! How about we put awhoopee cushion on his office chair? He’ll sit down, it’ll sound like he’s flatulent, even though he’s not.

Scene: The apartment kitchen.
Sheldon: All right, how’s this for revenge? A solution of hydrogen peroxide, and one of saturated potassium iodide.

Raj: What’s this?
Sheldon: Mountain Dew. Ah, refreshing. Now, we’re going to combine these chemicals with ordinary dish soap, creating a little exothermic release of oxygen.

Raj: Foamy vengeance.
Sheldon: Yes, exactly.

Leonard: This is brilliant, Sheldon. How are we going to deploy it in Kripke’s office?
Sheldon: Already taken care of. Observe. This is a live shot of Kripke’s lab via a mini webcam I was able to install, thanks to a dollar bill discreetly placed in the night janitor’s shirt pocket. At the same time, I also secured large quantities of these chemicals above the tiles in the drop ceiling.

Raj: Oh, Sheldon, you remind me of a young Lex Luthor.
Sheldon: You flatter me, sir.

Leonard: Let me guess, motion sensors?
Sheldon: The reaction will be triggered when Kripke reaches the center of the room. Mwah, ha, ha.

Leonard: I gotta say, I am really impressed. This is truly the Sheldon Cooper way to get even. (Sits down. There is a flatulent noise)
Sheldon: It may be low-tech, but I still maintain the whoopee cushion has comic validity.

Leonard: And the board of directors. Abort! Abort!
Sheldon: There is no abort.

Raj: Well, how could you not put in an abort?
Sheldon: I made a boo-boo, all right?

Penny: Hey, Leonard, check this out. (Throws some food in the air and catches it in her mouth)
Sheldon: Leonard, she’s doing it again.

Leonard: I think it upsets Sheldon when you play with the food.
Sheldon: No. It upsets Sheldon when she willy-nilly takes it from the containers without regard for its equitable distribution. This is essentially why you have famine in India.

Penny: You want me to put it back?
Sheldon: Leonard.

Howard (arriving): What’s up, my nerdizzles? Raj, Sheldon, I want you to meet my girlfriend Bernadette.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Sure. The more, the merrier.
Sheldon: Wait, no, that’s a false equivalency. More does not equal merry. If there were 2,000 people in this apartment right now, would we be celebrating? No, we’d be suffocating.

Leonard: Sheldon…
Sheldon: Don’t Sheldon me. We ordered for five people, not six.

Penny: Oh, come on, it’s fine. We’ll just put it all on the table, you know, family style.
Sheldon: Oh, sure. And while we’re at it, why don’t we put our hands behind our backs, have an old-fashioned eating contest?

Penny: Oh no, no, you see, in the winter, that seat is close enough to the radiator so that he’s warm, yet not so close that he sweats. In the summer, it’s directly in the path of a cross-breeze created by opening windows there and there. It faces the television at an angle that isn’t direct, so he can still talk to everybody, yet not so wide that the picture looks distorted.
Sheldon: Perhaps there’s hope for you after all.

Penny: Oh, great selection, great prices.
Sheldon: My mother was right. Hell is real.

Bernadette: That’s amazing.
Sheldon: Yes. Leonard’s work is nearly as amazing as third graders growing lima beans in wet paper towels. (Raj whispers to him) While I appreciate the oh, snap, I’m uncomfortable having your moist breath in my ear.

Bernadette: Oh, yeah, show me. In microbiology, the most exciting thing I get to work with is yeast.
Sheldon: Howard?

Howard: Yeah?
Sheldon: Your shoes are delightful. Where did you get them?

Howard: What?
Sheldon: Bazinga. I don’t care.

Raj: Ha! Eat my dust, racially stereotypical plumber.
Sheldon: That’s not fair. I got stuck behind a tree.

Raj: And a cow and a penguin. Face it dude, whether it’s a real car or a virtual cartoon car, you can’t drive.
Sheldon: Just need a little more practice.

Penny (knocking and entering): Hey, Sheldon, can I talk to you for a second?
Sheldon: It’s not about shoes, is it? I don’t think I could go through that again.

Penny: It’s not about shoes.
Sheldon: Then speak.

Penny: Um, actually, can we do it in private?
Sheldon: All right. (To Raj) Go away. I agree, it’s rude, but she asked for privacy.

Penny: Thanks, Raj. Okay, so here’s the thing, I was wondering if you could maybe teach me a little physics?
Sheldon: A little physics? There’s no such thing. Physics encompasses the entire universe, from quantum particles to supernovas, from spinning electrons to spinning galaxies.

Penny: Yeah, okay, cool. I don’t need the PBS special, I just want to know enough so I can talk to Leonard about his job. You know, like Bernadette does.
Sheldon: Why can’t Leonard teach you?

Penny: ‘Cause I want to surprise him.
Sheldon: Can’t you surprise him in some other way? For example, I’m sure he’d be delightfully taken aback if you cleaned your apartment.

Penny: Come on, Sheldon, this is important to me.
Sheldon: Penny, this would be a massive undertaking, and my time is both limited and valuable.

Penny: You’re sitting here playing video games all day.
Sheldon: Okay, point. What sort of foundation do you have? Did you take any science classes in school?

Penny: Sure. I did the one with the frogs.
Sheldon: The one with the frogs.

Penny: Yeah, actually, it was pretty cool. A lot of the girls threw up, but I gutted that thing like a deer.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Penny, I don’t think so.

Penny: Oh, come on! A smart guy like you, it’ll be a challenge. You can make it like an experiment.
Sheldon: Interesting. I suppose if someone could teach sign language to KoKo the gorilla, I could teach you some rudimentary physics.

Penny: Great! It’s a little insulting, but great. I’ll be KoKo.
Sheldon: Not likely. KoKo learned to understand over 2,000 words, not one of which had anything to do with shoes.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Research journal, entry one. I’m about to embark on one of the great challenges of my scientific career, teaching Penny physics. I’m calling it Project Gorilla.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Come in. Take a seat. Subject has arrived. I’ve extended a friendly casual greeting.

Penny: Ready to get started?
Sheldon: One moment. Subject appears well-rested and enthusiastic. Apparently, ignorance is bliss. All right, let us begin. Where’s your notebook?

Penny: Um, I don’t have one.
Sheldon: How are you going to take notes without a notebook?

Penny: I have to take notes?
Sheldon: How else are you gonna study for the tests?

Penny: There’s gonna be a test?
Sheldon: Tests. Here. It’s college-ruled. I hope that’s not too intimidating.

Penny: Thank you.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. Now, Introduction to Physics. What is physics? Physics comes from the ancient Greek word physika. It’s at this point that you’ll want to start taking notes. Physika means the science of natural things. And it is there, in ancient Greece, that our story begins.

Penny: Ancient Greece?
Sheldon: Hush. If you have questions, raise your hand. It’s a warm summer evening, circa 600 BC, you’ve finished your shopping at the local market, or agora, and you look up at the night sky. There you notice some of the stars seem to move, so you name them planetes, or wanderer. Yes, Penny?

Penny: Um, does this have anything to do with Leonard’s work?
Sheldon: This is the beginning of a twenty six hundred year journey we’re going to take together from the ancient Greeks through Isaac Newton to Niels Bohr to Erwin Schrodinger to the Dutch researchers that Leonard is currently ripping off.

Penny: Twenty six hundred years?
Sheldon: Yeah, give or take. As I was saying, it’s a warm summer evening in ancient Greece… Yes, Penny?

Penny: I have to go to the bathroom.
Sheldon: Can’t you hold it?

Penny: Not for twenty six hundred years.
Sheldon: Project Gorilla, entry two. I am exhausted.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Now, remember, Newton realized that Aristotle was wrong and force was not necessary to maintain motion. So let’s plug in our 9.8 meters per second squared as A and we get force, Earth gravity, equals mass times 9.8 meters per second per second. So we can see that MA equals MG and what do we know from this?

Penny: Uh, we know that… Newton was a really smart cookie. Oh! Is that where Fig Newtons come from?
Sheldon: No, Fig Newtons are named after a small town in Massachusetts. Don’t write that down!

Penny: Sorry.
Sheldon: Now, if MA equals MG what does that imply?

Penny: I don’t know.
Sheldon: How can you not know? I just told you. Have you suffered a recent blow to the head?

Penny: Hey! You don’t have to be so mean!
Sheldon: I’m sorry. (Smiling) Have you suffered a recent blow to the head?

Penny: No, you just suck at teaching.
Sheldon: Really? Of those two explanations, which one seems the most likely?

Penny: Oh, God, Sheldon, look I’m trying to understand, but you’re going too fast. Can you just back up a little bit?
Sheldon: All right. It’s a warm summer evening in ancient Greece…

Penny: Not that far back!
Sheldon: Okay! At what point did you begin to feel lost?

Penny: I don’t know. Where were we looking up at the night sky?
Sheldon: Greece.

Penny: Damn it!
Sheldon: There’s no need to get frustrated, people learn at different rates. Unlike objects falling in a vacuum, which…? MA equals MG?

Penny: Squared?
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Aristotle?
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Five?
Sheldon: Oh!

Penny: Then I don’t know.
Sheldon: Why are you crying?

Penny: Because I’m stupid!
Sheldon: That’s no reason to cry. One cries because one is sad. For example, I cry because others are stupid and it makes me sad.

Penny: Okay, look, can we just please forget about all this extra stuff and can you just tell me what Leonard does?
Sheldon: All right. Leonard is attempting to learn why sub-atomic particles move the way they do.

Penny: Really? That’s it? Well, that doesn’t sound so complicated.
Sheldon: It’s not. That’s why Leonard does it.

Penny: Okay, I just have one question. What exactly are sub-atomic particles?
Sheldon: A good question.

Penny: Thank you.
Sheldon: And to answer it, we first must ask ourselves, what is physics?

Penny: Oh, balls.
Sheldon: It’s a warm summer evening in ancient Greece…

Penny: Oh, I always tear up when the Grinch’s heart grows three sizes.
Sheldon: Tears seem appropriate. Enlargement of the heart muscle, or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, is a serious disease which could lead to congestive heart failure.

Penny: You really didn’t like it, Sheldon?
Sheldon: No, on the contrary. I found the Grinch to be a relatable, engaging character, and I was really with him right up to the point that he succumbed to social convention and returned the presents and saved Christmas. What a buzz kill that was.

Leonard: When we watch Frosty the Snowman, he roots for the sun.
Sheldon: Excuse me, but the sun is essential for all life on Earth. Frosty is merely a bit of frozen supernatural ephemera in a stolen hat. A crime, by the way, for which he is never brought to account.

Penny: Sheldon, what about you? Did you have a Christmas tree?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. We had a tree, we had a manger, we had an inflatable Santa Claus with plastic reindeer on the front lawn. And to make things even more jolly, there were so many blinking lights on the house they induced neighbourhood-wide seizures.

Penny: So I take it you don’t want to help us trim the tree.
Sheldon: I do not. But if you insist on decorating a spider-infested fire hazard in my home I would request that you add this.

Penny: What is it?
Sheldon: You’re kidding, right? It’s a bust of Sir Isaac Newton.

Penny: Oh, sure, sure, yeah. Very Christmassy.
Sheldon: Wait, excuse me, but it’s much more Christmassy than anything you’ve put on the tree.

Leonard: Here we go.
Sheldon: December 25, 1642, Julian calendar, Sir Isaac Newton is born. Jesus, on the other hand, was actually born in the summer. His birthday was moved to coincide with a traditional pagan holiday that celebrated the winter solstice with lit fires and slaughtered goats. Which, frankly, sounds like more fun than 12 hours of church with my mother followed by a fruitcake.

Leonard: Merry Newton-mas, everyone.
Sheldon: I sense that’s not sincere, although I have no idea why.

Penny: No, it’s fine. Look, Sir Isaac can go right next to this little candy cane.
Sheldon: No. Isaac goes at the top of the tree.

Leonard: No, he doesn’t.
Sheldon: I understand. You dispute Newton’s claim that he invented calculus and you want to put Gottfried Leibniz on the top.

Leonard: Yeah, you got me. I’m a Leibniz man.
Sheldon: Well, perhaps when your mother gets here, she’ll talk some sense into you.

Leonard: Well, I just, I thought…
Sheldon: If I can interject here, obviously Leonard is concerned that his mother won’t approve of you as his mate.

Leonard: You are, it’s just…
Sheldon: If I can interject again. Leonard comes from a remarkably high-achieving family, who have all chosen high-achieving partners. He probably feels that it’s doubtful that his mother will be overly impressed with his dating a woman whose most significant achievement is memorizing the Cheesecake Factory menu.

Leonard: Um…
Sheldon: Leonard, I’m no expert on meditation, but if you’re trying to calm yourself down, I believe the word is Om.

Beverley: It was so nice of you to come all the way down to the airport to pick me up.
Sheldon: No trouble at all.

Beverley: Yes, dear. Mommy’s proud. I’ve been meaning to thank you for your notes on my paper disproving quantum brain dynamic theory.
Sheldon: My pleasure. For a non-physicist, you have a remarkable grasp of how electric dipoles in the brain’s water molecules could not possibly form a Bose condensate.

Leonard: Wait, wait, wait. When did you send my mom notes on a paper?
Sheldon: August 16th. Right after her carpal tunnel surgery.

Beverley: Oh, did I thank you for the flowers?
Sheldon: You did.

Beverley: I don’t really like flowers.
Sheldon: Neither do I, but it’s the social convention.

Beverley: Well, I would assume it’s because Sheldon and I stay in touch due to mutual interest and respect, while you avoid me, due to unresolved childhood issues.
Sheldon: It’s what we think caused your narcissistic personality disorder. We discussed it at length during our last video chat. Although how we got onto the subject of you is baffling.

Leonard: No. Sheldon, why didn’t you tell me?
Sheldon: My bad. I did send a gift from both of us.

Beverley: Why? I’m not marrying her. So, how about you? Are you seeing anyone interesting?
Sheldon: Well, I’m not sure about interesting, but…

Leonard: Not the time, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Very well. Shall we switch topics to Isaac Newton v. Gottfried Leibniz?

Beverley: It’s all right, Sheldon. I will just pretend that Leonard’s not withholding information. Although, I will point out, Leonard, that I am a trained psychiatrist and you are exhibiting the same secretive behavioural tics that accompanied your learning to masturbate.
Sheldon: Isn’t she brilliant, Leonard? How I envy you.

Beverley: Mmm, well, let’s see. Sheldon, when did I leave Leonard’s father?
Sheldon: September 22nd.

Leonard: Mitzy’s dead?
Sheldon: She was old and blind, Leonard. What choice did we have?

Scene: Leonard’s bedroom.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard?

Leonard: What is it?
Sheldon: I made tea.

Leonard: I don’t want tea.
Sheldon: I didn’t make tea for you. This is my tea.

Leonard: Then why are you telling me?
Sheldon: It’s a conversation starter.

Leonard: That’s a lousy conversation starter.
Sheldon: Oh, is it? We’re conversing. Checkmate.

Leonard: What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: What I want is to be departing the Starship Enterprise in a one-man shuttle craft headed to the planetoid I rule known as Sheldon Alpha Five.

Leonard: I want that too. Why are you here?
Sheldon: To comfort you, of course. No, that’s not going to work at all, I’ll comfort you from over here. Leonard, what you’re experiencing is a classic Jungian crisis in which the aging individual mourns the loss of the never-to-be realized ideal family unit.

Leonard: Thank you, that’s very comforting.
Sheldon: That’s not the comforting part.

Leonard: It’s not?
Sheldon: No, no. The comforting part is that the Germans have a term for what you’re feeling. Weltschmerz. It means the depression that arises from comparing the world as it is to a hypothetical, idealized world.

Leonard: You’re right, I do feel better.
Sheldon: Well, the Germans have always been a comforting people. Just remember, Leonard, where your biological family has failed you, you always have me, your surrogate family.

Leonard: You’re my surrogate family?
Sheldon: If it’s any consolation, I’m not happy about it either. Good night.

Penny: That’s the Del Taco.
Sheldon: Why is Leonard softly banging his head against his bedroom door?

Beverley: Thank you for taking me to the airport.
Sheldon: You’re very welcome.

Beverley: Please, I am very hungover and in no mood to satisfy your need for approval. Sheldon, I do hope you’ll forgive me for my inappropriate behaviour last night.
Sheldon: I don’t blame you. You were intoxicated.

Beverley: Thank you.
Sheldon: I blame Penny.

Beverley: I think it’s best that you not know.
Sheldon: Agreed.

Howard: Yes, actual women are the best.
Sheldon: I don’t understand. What other kind of women are there?

Howard: Seen it.
Sheldon: Detailed analysis posted online.

Raj: Great. They get girlfriends, and they just abandon us?
Sheldon: It is great, isn’t it? We have a wonderful evening ahead of us.

Raj: We do?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. I just discovered I don’t have enough room on my hard drive for a Linux partition, so you and I are going to perform a full backup, reinitialize and then reinstall all my operating systems.

Raj: I don’t want to do that.
Sheldon: All right. Well, I’m going to perform full backup, reinitialize and then reinstall all my operating systems.

Raj: What about me?
Sheldon: Well, I understand there are several types of artificial women. Maybe you should look into that.

Raj: Dude, there’s so many cool things we could be doing tonight. Look. At the Glendale Galleria, put on your best zoot suit, it’s a salute to Swing music in the center court near Macy’s. 5pm to 9pm, huh, huh? A salute to zoot. Sounds like a hoot.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Raj, I have no desire to salute any article of clothing tonight. Much less one that’s linked to race riots in the 1940s.

Raj: Race riots?
Sheldon: The zoot suit riots.

Raj: Oh. I always thought that was some sort of after-Christmas sale. Well, then why don’t we just go to the galleria and walk around?
Sheldon: I don’t need anything at the Galleria. Do you need anything at the Galleria?

Raj: No. We would just walk around and see what’s what.
Sheldon: That’s a semantically null sentence.

Raj: Okay, well, how about this? From the university Web site, 7pm to 10pm, Norton Hall Multipurpose Room, mixer for grad students and faculty of the science and humanities departments. Whether you split atoms or infinitives, this is the place to be.
Sheldon: Well, that’s certainly amusing, but I have no interest.

Raj: Come on, Sheldon, the world is filled with people doing things outside. Let’s go outside. Outside is good.
Sheldon: If outside is so good, why has mankind spent thousands of years trying to perfect inside?

Raj: I don’t know, it’s a marketing scheme. Please, Sheldon, I’m a young, virile visitor from a foreign land and I need to strut my stuff.
Sheldon: Let me offer you a compromise. Sometimes when I feel stifled and want a change of scenery, I use my imagination.

Raj: Oh, boy.
Sheldon: One of my favourite places to visit is the two-dimensional world described in Edwin Abbott’s mathematical fantasy, Flatland.

Raj: I don’t want to go to Flatland.
Sheldon: You’re only saying that because you haven’t been there. I am now a hexagon in two-dimensional space and can only perceive the edges of other objects.

Raj: Oy.
Sheldon: Is that you, Raj? I don’t recognize your edge.

Raj: Sheldon, I’m begging you. I want to go to this mixer, and I don’t want to go alone.
Sheldon: Well, you’re in luck, there’s a mixer here in Flatland. Oh, look, there’s a sexually attractive line segment, you should chat her up.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: Tell her you’re a circle, Flatland gals are all hot for circles.

Raj: Thanks for coming with me.
Sheldon: Thanks for giving me your limited edition Green Lantern lantern.

Raj: Did you really have to bring it in with you?
Sheldon: What if evil strikes and my power ring runs low?

Raj: Come on, let’s get a drink.
Sheldon: I don’t drink.

Raj: Yeah, well I do. And when my wingman is carrying a Green Lantern lantern, I drink a lot. I’ll have a screwdriver, please. Don’t be chintzy with the screw.
Sheldon: I would like a root beer float.

Raj: Sheldon, they don’t have ice cream.
Sheldon: They don’t? Well, apparently, these people and I differ greatly on the definition of party.

Raj: He’ll have a Shirley Temple.
Sheldon: And don’t be chintzy with the Shirley.

Raj: Okay, let’s check out the females.
Sheldon: All right. There’s a female.

Raj: That’s Professor Wilkinson’s wife, she’s like 80 years old.
Sheldon: But she’s female. Isn’t that the game?

Raj: No. I’m looking for a hookup.
Sheldon: Oh, yes. So, the point of this exercise is for you to find someone to copulate with?

Raj: Not so loud, but ideally, yes. Thanks.
Sheldon: Thank you. And what is my function as wingman?

Raj: You help me run my game.
Sheldon: Okay. What is your game?

Girl: Hey, that’s pretty cool. What is it?
Sheldon: It’s a limited edition Green Lantern lantern. My friend is looking for someone to copulate with.

Girl: You’re very funny. I’m Abby.
Sheldon: I’m Sheldon. How do you do?

Raj: Well, I’m a slumdog astrophysicist.
Sheldon: I thought your father was a gynaecologist. I’m sorry. (Smiles and nods)

Raj: Hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Martha: Is that the limited edition Green Lantern lantern?
Sheldon: In brightest day, in darkest night, no evil shall escape my sight.

Martha: Oh, that is so awesome.
Sheldon: Thank you. Have you chosen one to copulate with?

Leonard: What’s going on?
Sheldon: We scored. I’m the wingman.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is learning Finnish. 
Sheldon: The dog… koira. The roof… katto. Grapes… ryp leet. (There is a knock on the door) One minute. Sis  n.

Raj: What was that?
Sheldon: It means come in. It’s taking forever to load the new operating system on my computer. I disinfected the kitchen and the bathroom, and now I thought I’d learn Finnish.

Raj: जो भी तुम्हारे नाव मंगाई. That’s Hindi for whatever floats your boat. Uh, listen, I got a text from that girl Abby, and she and her friend Martha want to hang out with us again. What do you say?
Sheldon: I don’t say anything. I merely offer you a facial expression that suggests you’ve gone insane.

Raj: I don’t get it. You had a great time.
Sheldon: Yes, exactly, I had a great time. That’s done, I’ve moved on to other things. For example, after I learn Finnish, I’m not going to learn Finnish again.

Raj: Please, Sheldon, I’m a lost Indian boy far from home, and I want a girlfriend and I want her to be Abby, and she’ll only come over if she can bring Martha.
Sheldon: Raj, I highly doubt there is any argument you can make, threat you might levy, rhetorical strategy, plea, invocation, supplication, or… vetoomus that you can employ that would convince me to reconsider.

Raj: My Incredible Hulk hands signed by Stan Lee.
Sheldon: Oh, my. I’ve admired these for years.

Raj: So does that mean we can go with the girls again?
Sheldon: Hulk agree to second date with puny humans!

Raj: You can’t wear the hands on the date.
Sheldon: Hulk sad.

Martha: Flatland is more than just a mathematical essay. It is also a treatise on Victorian social mores.
Sheldon: You know, I had never considered that. Wow, that’s going to completely change my visits there. Well, it’s late.

Martha: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: Time for bed.

Martha: Okay.
Sheldon: Good night, puny human! (He gets up and leaves).

Martha: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes?

Martha: Listen, they’re kind of getting busy in the living room, and I was wondering if I could hang out in here for a while.
Sheldon: Well, I suppose. Come in. I’ll sleep in Leonard’s room. Good night.

Raj: No, I’m not jealous. All right, I’d kill a hobo if it’ll get me laid. Now, can we order?
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord, they re-did the menu.

Leonard: So what? It’s the same food.
Sheldon: Oh, is it? Look at this. General Tso’s Chicken is no longer listed under specialties. It’s now under chicken.

Raj: So?
Sheldon: Yes, General Tso.

Raj: Not Tso the chicken, so the question. So?
Sheldon: So, why is it no longer a specialty? Did the chef lose confidence in the dish or himself? And look over here, shrimp in mobster sauce. What is mobster sauce?

Leonard: It’s obviously a typo.
Sheldon: Perhaps. Perhaps this restaurant’s now a front for organized crime. For all we know, the mobster sauce contains actual chunks of deceased mobsters.

Leonard: You know what? Let’s just get a pizza.
Sheldon: Good idea. We’ll go to Corleone’s.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: You know, the more I think about it, the mobster sauce couldn’t possibly contain chunks of mobster.

Leonard: And why is that?
Sheldon: It was listed under seafood.

Leonard: What if they were mobsters who slept with the fishes?
Sheldon: Leonard, are we having a serious conversation or not?

Leonard (noticing their door has been broken open): What the…?
Sheldon: The TV is gone.

Leonard: So are our laptops.
Sheldon: Oh God, oh God, oh, God! It’s all right. They didn’t take my comic books.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: They took our TV, two laptops, four external hard-drives, our PS2, our PS3, our X-Box, our X-Box 360, our classic Nintendo, our Super Nintendo, our Nintendo 64 and our Wii.

Leonard: We like games.
Sheldon: Right, games. They took Halo 1, Halo 2, Halo 3, Call of Duty 1, Call of Duty 2, Call of Duty 3, Rock Band, Rock Band 2, Final Fantasy 1 thru 9, The Legend of Zelda, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, Super Mario Brothers, Super Mario Galaxy, Mario and Sonic at the Winter Olympics and Ms. Pacman.

Policeman: Assorted video games.
Sheldon: When does the CSI team get here?

Policeman: What?
Sheldon: In anticipation of their arrival, I’ve bagged some evidence. One of the thieves had the audacity to quench his thirst while ransacking our home. You should be able to pull some good prints off this. And now, here are my prints so you can rule me out as a suspect.

Leonard: What about me?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, Leonard. It’s too early to discount the possibility of this being an inside job.

Policeman: I’d be happy to put him under a 72-hour psychiatric hold.
Sheldon: I’m not crazy. My mother had me tested.

Policeman: We’re done here. Call this number, and we’ll fax you a copy of the report so you can submit it to your insurance company.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, that’s the end of your inquiry?

Policeman: Do you have any more information that might be relevant?
Sheldon: Oh, my goodness. Where do I begin? For instance, my laptop contained four out of the five gedanken experiments necessary for a cogent restatement of the quantum measurement problem.

Leonard: How is that going to help them?
Sheldon: Well, they could monitor scientific publications and see if anyone posts such a cogent restatement in the next couple of months. If so, the authors are most likely in possession of my stolen laptop.

Leonard: What are we supposed to do now?
Sheldon: The only thing we can do. Watch TV on our phones until the criminals return and bludgeon us to death in our sleep.

Leonard: Does that mean you’ve ruled me out as a suspect?
Sheldon: Oh, how I wish I could.

 
Sheldon: I do not have to urinate. I am the master of my own bladder. Drat.

Penny: I’m not scared. I would’ve gone all Nebraska on their asses.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny.

Leonard: Hand me the bat.
Sheldon: We just had a major crime in the building, and you open the door without asking who it is?

Penny: It won’t happen again, what’s up?
Sheldon: Nothing. Just wanted to see if you were both okay.

Leonard: We’re fine, Sheldon.
Sheldon: All right, then. Good night.

Leonard: Mm-hmm.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny.

Penny: Who is it?
Sheldon: Sheldon. Sheldon Cooper.

Penny: Yes?
Sheldon: May I come in?

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: I see you’re drinking wine.

Leonard: Yes, we are. And we’re about to go to bed.
Sheldon: Uh-huh.

Penny: Sheldon, do you want to sleep here tonight?
Sheldon: Oh, as small as Leonard is, I don’t think the two of you’d be comfortable on the couch.

Leonard: What do you want?
Sheldon: It’s not what I want, it’s what evolution wants. Human beings are primates. Primates have evolved to live in groups, both for protection and support.

Leonard: But you don’t like other people.
Sheldon: I do tonight. It’s scary over there.

Leonard: Did we win? Can we go to bed?
Sheldon: Good Lord, I could not have made this easier. Hydrogen atom, H, plus pigs minus pea, Higgs. Bow, General Zod trapped in the Phantom Zone. Bow-zone. Pear. Tickle. Pear-tickle. Higgs Boson Particle. How could you not get that?

Penny: Look, Sheldon, sweetie, I know you’re feeling insecure, but we’ve really got to go to sleep.
Sheldon: All right. I’ll take the first watch and wake you at 0400.

Man on TV: Just gonna take a look around outside.
Sheldon: Bad idea.

Woman on TV: No, Jim, don’t open the door!
Sheldon: Listen to her, Jim.

Man on TV: Don’t worry, there’s no one out here. (Sound of woman screaming. Sheldon nods, and turns off TV. Walks down to Leonard’s room.)
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny! (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny! (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny!

Howard: All right, we’ve got a titanium dead bolt and a reinforced jamb controlled by a state-of-the-art electronic access system.
Sheldon: What if they cut the power?

Raj: There’s a 200-watt uninterruptible backup power supply.
Sheldon: What if someone steals my keys?

Raj: There are independent voice and fingerprint scanners.
Sheldon: What if someone kidnaps me, forces me to record my voice, and then cuts off my thumb?

Leonard: Sorry, let me help you.
Sheldon: Wonderful security system if we’re attacked by a school of tuna.

Howard: Don’t worry, the net’s going to be electrified. Picture her on the floor, spasming uncontrollably.
Sheldon: Better.

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. 
Sheldon: Sheldon’s journal. Security system in place. However, sleep continues to elude me. I’ve seen the underbelly of Pasadena, this so-called City of Roses, and it haunts me. Ah, the injustice, I lie here awake, tormented, while out there evil lurks, probably playing Donkey Kong on my classic Nintendo. (Hears a noise. Goes to check, then panics and climbs out window onto ledge.) Oh, dear. I am the master of my own bladder. (Crawls along to Leonard’s window, where Leonard and Penny are inside being intimate. Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny.

Leonard: God, Sheldon. What the hell are you doing out there?
Sheldon: I heard a noise.

Leonard: It was us. We knocked over a lamp.
Sheldon: Why would you knock over a lamp?

Penny: He doesn’t need to know what we were doing, Leonard.
Sheldon: Oh! No, she’s right, I don’t need to know what you were doing. Carry on. (Starts to climb back out of window)

Leonard: What are you doing? Use the door.
Sheldon: Good thinking. Perhaps I’ll check the perimeter and make some warm milk.

Leonard: Great, you do that.
Sheldon: Would you like me to bring you some warm milk?

Leonard: I’m lactose intolerant.
Sheldon: And you don’t wish to alarm me with any more loud noises, very thoughtful. Warm milk, Penny?

Penny: No, thanks.
Sheldon: Fine. Good night to you, sir. Miss.

Penny: Sheldon, are you okay?
Sheldon: I’m fine. Although I’m no longer the master of my own bladder.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: My new computer came with Windows 7. Windows 7 is much more user-friendly than Windows Vista. I don’t like that.

Leonard: Don’t you think looking for a new city to live in is a bit of an overreaction?
Sheldon: Our apartment was broken into, our security system tried to kill me, and as a result, I’m leaving Pasadena forever. Tell me how that’s overreacting.

Penny: Come on, Sheldon, you can’t move. Don’t you need to stay in one place so the mother ship can find you when it returns?
Sheldon: Oh, if that were only true. Unfortunately, as I’m earthbound for the foreseeable future, I need to find a location that’s more hospitable than the mean streets of Pasadena. Like Enid, Oklahoma. Low crime rate and high-speed Internet connectivity, but no model train shops. Sorry, Enid.

Leonard: Oh, no, he’s going to telecommute. Everybody’s really excited about it.
Sheldon: All right. Boone, North Carolina. Every summer since 1952, Boone has hosted an outdoor amphitheater portrayal of the life and times of its namesake, Dan’l Boone. Sounds like something that would attract the wrong crowd. Penny, you’re from Nebraska, correct?

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. Sheldon is packing. 
Sheldon: It will take me a few days to get settled. After I do, I will e-mail you detailed PDFs containing diagrams and instructions that will guide you through packing and shipping the rest of my possessions to Bozeman, Montana. In the meantime, please forward my mail.

Leonard: Any place specific or just the Bozeman, Montana Loony Bin?
Sheldon: I sense you’re making a joke, but Bozeman does have a comedy club called The Loony Bin, so do not forward my mail there.

Howard: Oh, come on. So you were the victim of a crime. That’s part of life. When my great-grandfather first came to this country, he put all his hopes and dreams into this little butcher shop he ran on the Lower East Side of New York. You know what happened? Every customer who walked into that butcher shop and asked for a pound of liver, got ripped off. But, those people moved on, and so should you.
Sheldon: I am moving on. I’m going to be a Bozite.

Leonard: They call themselves Bozites?
Sheldon: They should. It’s one of the first things I plan to bring up upon arrival.

Penny: Sheldon, I can’t believe I’m saying this, but I’m going to miss you.
Sheldon: Please, Penny, as you know, I’m not comfortable with prolonged good-byes and maudlin displays of emotion, so I prepared a short video.

Scene: Bozeman, Montana bus depot. 
Sheldon: That is a bracing cold, an invigorating cold. Lord, is it cold!

Man: Help you with your bags, sir?
Sheldon: Thank you, fellow Bozite. And may I say, you are the living embodiment of all the promises made by our lovely town’s Chamber of Commerce. (Man picks up bags and starts running.) Wait! Wait! Excuse me! (At ticket desk) One ticket to Pasadena, California, please.

Howard: Hey, look who’s back!
Sheldon: Interesting. The acquaintance is the first to greet me.

Penny: Whatcha doing?
Sheldon: I’m attempting to view my work as a fleeting peripheral image so as to engage the superior colliculus of my brain.

Penny: Interesting. I usually just have coffee. You’ve been up all night?
Sheldon: Is it morning?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Then I’ve been up all night.

Penny: And you’re stuck?
Sheldon: Why else would a person try to engage their superior colliculus?

Leonard: Mmm, he’s either isolating the terms of his formula and examining them individually, or looking for the alligator that swallowed his hand after Peter Pan cut it off.
Sheldon: Captain Hook’s hand was eaten by a crocodile, not an alligator. If you’re going to mock me, at least get your facts straight.

Leonard: Aye, aye, Captain.
Sheldon: I can’t see it! It just won’t coalesce.

Leonard: Maybe you need a fresh start.
Sheldon: You’re right. (Takes whiteboard to window and throws it out. Picks up a new one) It’s a great idea, Leonard. Thank you.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Electrons move through graphene, act as if they have no mass…

Leonard: Intellectually about 30 hours. Emotionally about 29 years.
Sheldon: Unit cell contains two carbon atoms. Interior angle of a hexagon is 120 degrees.

Raj: No, it’s okay. I don’t have to go. I’m happy just to guide you and your ladies to suitable entertainment choices. I’m a walking brown Yelp.com.
Sheldon: Structure, constant structure. One atom…

Howard: I thought I smelled popcorn.
Sheldon: Pattern is the same as fermions, travels on the pathways, hexagonal, it’s always hexagonal…

Raj (as Sheldon reaches out and grabs from his plate): Hey, those are my lima beans!
Sheldon: Not lima beans, carbon atoms.

Leonard: Here, you want my peas?
Sheldon: Peas! Perfect, they can be electrons.

Howard: Want my corn?
Sheldon: Don’t be ridiculous. What would I do with corn?

Raj: Okay, just to be clear, roller skating was my idea, and I’m very unhappy that you turned it into a double date, and I hope you both fall on your asses and break your coccyxes.
Sheldon: The plural of coccyx is coccyges.

Leonard: Oh, my God! Are you… (falls as well)
Sheldon: Good Lord! You’re ruining everything!

Howard: Sheldon, what the hell are you doing?
Sheldon: The same thing I’ve been doing for three days. Trying to figure out why electrons behave as if they have no mass when travelling through a graphene sheet.

Bernadette: With marbles?
Sheldon: Well, I needed something bigger than peas, now, didn’t I?

Bernadette: Sheldon, when was the last time you got any sleep?
Sheldon: I don’t know, two, three days. Not important. I don’t need sleep, I need answers. I need to determine where in this swamp of unbalanced formulas squatteth the toad of truth.

Bernadette: Okay, Sheldon. What happens to our neuroreceptors when we don’t get enough REM sleep?
Sheldon: They lose their sensitivity to serotonin and norepinephrine.

Bernadette: Which leads to…?
Sheldon: Impaired cognitive function.

Bernadette: Right, so march in there, brush your teeth and go to bed.
Sheldon: But I don’t want to go to bed.

Bernadette: I’m going to count to three. One…
Sheldon: Oh, all right.

Leonard: Yeah, well, he’s extra special. Hey, Shelly. What you doing?
Sheldon: Size ratio was all wrong. Couldn’t visualize it. Needed bigger carbon atoms.

Leonard: Sure, sure. How did you get into this place?
Sheldon: Back door has a five-pin tumbler system, single-circuit alarm. Child’s play. You can start sorting protons and neutrons while I build carbon atoms.

Leonard: No, I don’t think so. We need to go home now.
Sheldon: But I’m still working.

Leonard: If you don’t come out of there, I’m going to have to drag you out.
Sheldon: You can try, but you’ll never catch me. (He disappears under the balls)

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny.

Leonard (Waking up as Penny screams): What! What, what, what?
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. 

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I have good news.

Leonard: And you had to barge in here and wake us up in the middle of the night?
Sheldon: Your cell phone was off.

Leonard: Because we didn’t want to be disturbed.
Sheldon: And that didn’t work out, did it?

Penny: Sheldon, what do you want?
Sheldon: I came to tell you I’ve got the answer.

Leonard: Really? You figured out the graphene problem?
Sheldon: No, no, I’m still hopelessly stuck on that, but I figured out how to figure it out.

Penny (as Sheldon sits on the bed): Oh.
Sheldon: Einstein.

Leonard: Yeah, I’m going to need a little more.
Sheldon: Albert Einstein.

Leonard: Keep going.
Sheldon: When Albert Einstein came up with special relativity, he was working at the patent office.

Leonard: So, you’re going to go work at the patent office?
Sheldon: Don’t be absurd. That’s in Washington. You know I could never live in a city whose streets are laid out in a wheel-and-spoke pattern. No. I’m going to find a similarly menial job where my basal ganglia are occupied with a routine task, freeing my prefrontal cortex to work quietly in the background on my problem.

Leonard: Sounds like a great plan.
Sheldon: Of course it is. Even talking to you is sufficiently menial that I can feel the proverbial juices starting to flow.

Leonard: Okay, well, thanks for sharing with us. Good night.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. Good night to you, too. Oh, by the way, I was watching you sleep for a moment, and I noticed that your snoring seems to be worse when you’re on your back.

Penny: Leonard doesn’t snore.
Sheldon: No, I wasn’t talking to Leonard.

Employment Office Assistant: So, Mr. Cooper, you’re looking for a job.
Sheldon: A menial job. Like yours.

Assistant: Why, thank you for noticing. I’m Menial Employee of the Month. Do you have a particular field in mind?
Sheldon: I do. For thousands of years, the lowest classes of the human race have spent their lives labouring to erect monuments under the lash of their betters, until finally they dropped down and became one with the dust through which they trudged. Do you have anything like that?

Assistant: No.
Sheldon: Shouldn’t you check your database?

Assistant (clicks her keyboard a few times): No.
Sheldon: You didn’t really type.

Assistant: I didn’t really have to. So, how about construction?
Sheldon: Oh, that would be good! Sawing, hammering, eating out of a lunch pail as my working-class fellows and I sit perched precariously on a girder high above the metropolis.

Assistant: No, no. This is putting up sheetrock at a housing project in Rosemead.
Sheldon: I could do that.

Assistant: Good.
Sheldon: One question.

Assistant: Yes?
Sheldon: What’s sheetrock?

Assistant: Moving on. How about doing deliveries for a florist?
Sheldon: That seems acceptable.

Assistant: Do you have your own car?
Sheldon: I don’t drive.

Assistant: Of course you don’t. Mr. Cooper, let me just ask you a question. What was your last job?
Sheldon: Senior theoretical particle physicist at CalTech, focusing on M theory, or, in layman’s terms, string theory.

Penny: Sheldon, what the hell are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m trying to get these tables cleared. We’re slammed.

Penny: No, wait, wait, no, wait. Wh.. what are you doing here?
Sheldon: A reasonable question. I asked myself, what is the most mind-numbing, pedestrian job conceivable, and three answers came to mind, uh, toll booth attendant, an Apple Store genius, and what Penny does. Now, since I don’t like touching other people’s coins, and I refuse to contribute to the devaluation of the word genius, here I am.

Penny: You just, you just walked in and they hired you, just like that?
Sheldon: Oh, heavens, no. Since I don’t need to be paid, I didn’t need to be hired. I simply came in, picked up a tray, and started working for the man. Let me get that plate out of your way.

Penny: Sheldon, this is ridiculous.
Sheldon: Is it? Just a moment ago I had a minor epiphany regarding the polymer degradation phenomenon while scraping congealed nachos off a plate. Bernadette, table 10 wants their check.

Penny: Sheldon, wait, this isn’t even what I do. I’m a waitress, not a busboy.
Sheldon: You’re right. That is more menial. Hello, I’m Sheldon. I’ll be your server today. I don’t recommend the salmon. I saw it in the kitchen.

Scene: The same, later.
Sheldon: All right, one bacon cheeseburger, breaking two Jewish dietary restrictions simultaneously, kudos. Beer-battered fish and chips. Now, here’s your tartar sauce. I also brought you salsa. It’s a little unconventional, but I think you’ll like it. It’s zingy. And for you, Factory Burrito Grande, no cheese, no sour cream, no ugly consequences from your lactose intolerance. Bon appétit.

Leonard: Hang on. Black beans, not pinto beans?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Double guacamole?
Sheldon: Of course.

Leonard: No cilantro?
Sheldon: Nope.

Leonard: Lettuce shredded, not chopped?
Sheldon: Yep.

Leonard: You understand why I’m doing this to you?
Sheldon: I do.

Penny: Sheldon, where are you going? Aren’t you going to clean this up?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I don’t work here.

Raj: Dude, I’m glad you finally got a girlfriend, but do you have to do all that lovey-dovey stuff in front of those of us who don’t?
Sheldon: Actually, he might have to. There’s an economic concept known as a positional good in which an object is only valued by the possessor because it’s not possessed by others. The term was coined in 1976 by economist Fred Hirsch to replace the more colloquial, but less precise neener-neener.

Leonard: Oh. I used to be like that. Then I got a girlfriend.
Sheldon: In pre-1976 terms, neener-neener.

Howard: Yeah, I am pulling out all the stops. There’s a $39.95 lover’s special at P.F. Chang’s. Egg rolls, dumplings, bottomless wok, and you get your picture taken on the big marble horse out front.
Sheldon: Given that Saint Valentine was a third century Roman priest who was stoned and beheaded, wouldn’t a more appropriate celebration of the evening be taking one’s steady gal to witness a brutal murder?

Leonard: Guess who the university is sending to Switzerland to attend a conference and see the CERN supercollider on February 14?
Sheldon: Professor Norton, although, God knows why. He hasn’t published anything of note since he won that Nobel Prize.

Leonard: In any case, they’re asking me to fill in for him.
Sheldon: In Switzerland or with the big-boobed weather girl?

Raj: No way, dude!
Sheldon: This is incredible! I’m so happy, I’m not even going to question their judgment in picking you. I’m just going to run home and start packing.

Leonard: Sheldon, you got a minute?
Sheldon: Of course, my good friend. Come in. Help me out, which ski hat says après supercollider?

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m not taking you to Switzerland.
Sheldon: Well, of course you are. Who else would you take?

Leonard: Penny.
Sheldon: What? That’s absurd. Penny has no interest in subatomic particle research.

Leonard: Yes, but it’ll be Valentine’s Day. We can go sightseeing and skiing and make love in front of a roaring fire in the shadow of the snowcapped Alps.
Sheldon: But Penny has no interest in subatomic particle research.

Leonard: I’m sorry, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Sorry? I’ve been dreaming about going to the Large Hadron Collider since I was nine years old.

Leonard: Yeah, well, I’ve been dreaming about spending Valentine’s Day with a girl since I was six.
Sheldon: Shame on you! That’s no dream for a scientist!

Penny: Oh, my God, Leonard! That’s incredible!
Sheldon: Not so fast. You might want to hold off on lighting your rabeliechtli, Penny.

Penny: My Rabe-what-ly?
Sheldon: Rabeliechtli. It means turnip light and refers to a traditional lantern hand-carved from a root vegetable and used to celebrate certain Swiss festivals. Which you will not be celebrating because, A, these festivals occur in the fall, and B, you will not be going to Switzerland.

Leonard: Sheldon, we’ve been through this. I’m taking Penny.
Sheldon: Afraid not. Do you recognize this?

Leonard: Not the roommate agreement.
Sheldon: Indeed, the roommate agreement. I call your attention to the Friendship Rider in Appendix C, Future Commitments. Number 37, in the event one friend is ever invited to visit the Large Hadron Collider, now under construction in Switzerland, he shall invite the other friend to accompany him.

Leonard: Yeah. We also put in what happens if one of us wins a MacArthur Grant, or if one of us gets superpowers, or if one of us is bitten by a zombie.
Sheldon: He can’t kill me, even if I turn.

Penny: Is there anything in there about if one of you gets a girlfriend?
Sheldon: No, that seemed a little farfetched.

Leonard: Sheldon, do you really expect to enforce this?
Sheldon: I’ve lived up to all my commitments under the agreement. At least once a day I ask how you are, even though I simply don’t care. I no longer stage spontaneous biohazard drills after 10 pm And I abandoned my goal to master Tuvan throat singing.

Leonard: Look, Sheldon, I know it’s in the agreement, and if you turn into a zombie, I promise I will not kill you. In fact, I’ll even let you eat my brains. But I am taking Penny to Switzerland.
Sheldon: Is that your final decision?

Leonard: It is.
Sheldon: Very well.

Leonard: Got a bit of traffic this morning, huh? Think it’s gonna rain? Instead of underpants, I covered my crotch with potato salad this morning. Thoughts? Okay, I know what’ll cheer you up, let’s play one of your driving games.
Sheldon: All right. This game is called Traitors. I will name three historical figures, you put them in order of the heinousness of their betrayal. Benedict Arnold, Judas, Dr. Leonard Hofstadter.

Leonard: You really think I belong with Benedict Arnold and Judas?
Sheldon: You’re right. Judas had the decency to hang himself after what he did.

Leonard: Come on, Sheldon. Can’t you at least try to understand how much this means to me?
Sheldon: Round two, Leonard Hofstadter, Darth Vader, Rupert Murdoch.

Leonard: Rupert Murdoch?
Sheldon: He owns Fox, and they cancelled Firefly. Hint, he and Darth Vader are tied for number 2.

Scene: Leonard’s bedroom.
Sheldon: Morning, old chum.

Leonard: What’s going on?
Sheldon: I’ve made you breakfast. Juice, coffee, and pancakes in the shape of some of your favorite fictional characters. See, here’s Frodo.

Leonard: You made Frodo pancakes?
Sheldon: Yeah, I used coconut shavings to do the hair on his feet. If you need to void your bladder before eating, I can keep them warm with this beret that I thoroughly laundered and pressed into service as a pancake cosy.

Leonard: Why are you doing this?
Sheldon: It’s by way of an apology for my recent behaviour. I’ve had some time to reflect and I’ve come to realize that friendship is not an aggregation of written agreements. It’s a result of two people respecting and caring for each other. Butterscotch scone?

Leonard: Thanks. It’s good.
Sheldon: What you’re tasting is respect and affection. And about a pound of Crisco. After you’ve finished breakfast, I thought we could spend the day watching the final season of Babylon 5 with director commentary.

Leonard: You hate Babylon 5.
Sheldon: I do. It fails as drama, science fiction, and it’s hopelessly derivative. But you like it, and you’re my friend.

Leonard: Okay, great. Still not taking you to Switzerland.
Sheldon: Drat. No Frodo for you.

Scene: The laundry room.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: Hello.
Sheldon: Alright, let’s dispense with the friendly banter, I believe you know why I’m here.

Penny: Well, I always figured it was to study us, discover our weaknesses, and report back to your alien overlords.
Sheldon: Yes, amusing. Extraordinary intelligence might well appear extraterrestrial to you, but let me be more specific. I believe you know why I’m here in the laundry room.

Penny: Oh, for God’s sakes.
Sheldon: Here we have a highly gifted researcher in the field of particle physics whose work has brought him to the precipice of forever changing mankind’s understanding of the universe. AKA me. And here we have a waitress brushing her teeth with her finger. AKA you.

Penny: I’m sorry. Is this supposed to be buttering me up?
Sheldon: Please hold all questions to the end of the presentation. This is the Large Hadron Collider at CERN in Switzerland, the product of decades of planning and construction. It is a Mecca for physicists the world over. This is Bath and Body Works on Colorado Boulevard. They sell scented soaps and lotions, some of which contain glitter. Now, let’s see if we can match the individual to the appropriate destination.

Penny: Okay, show’s over.
Sheldon: No, it’s not. I’ve got five more slides.

Penny: Sheldon, this is Leonard’s decision. He invited me to Switzerland, and I intend to go.
Sheldon: Very well. Enjoy yourself. You’re going to be in the presence of something that I’ve dreamed of seeing for decades. I just hope you’ll be able to appreciate the magnitude of where you are and what it represents.

Penny: I’ll talk to Leonard.
Sheldon: You will?

Penny: You’re welcome.
Sheldon: Since I rarely hug, I’m relying on your expertise regarding duration.

Penny: I think we’re there.
Sheldon: Oh, good. Bye-bye.

Leonard: Sheldon, I need to talk to you.
Sheldon: All right, my friend. Would you like some cholermus?

Leonard: Some what?
Sheldon: Cholermus. It’s a traditional Swiss breakfast dish. I’m preparing my gastrointestinal system for the exotic cuisine of Switzerland.

Leonard: You’re not going to Switzerland!
Sheldon: Oh, but I am. Didn’t Penny tell you the good news?

Leonard: She told me that you went behind my back to guilt her into letting you go instead of her.
Sheldon: Yes, that good news.

Leonard: Well, forget it. I was the one who was invited, I get to decide who goes with me, and it’s Penny, not you!
Sheldon: Howard, could you lower the lights? I have a short PowerPoint presentation.

Leonard: I don’t need to see your presentation. This discussion is over!
Sheldon: That’s a somewhat ambiguous response. Am I going or not?

Leonard: Sheldon, at this point, I would go by myself before I would take you.
Sheldon: Really?

Leonard: Yeah, really.
Sheldon: Well then, you leave me no alternative. From this moment forward, we can be roommates, but we will no longer be friends.

Leonard: I’m sorry you feel that way.
Sheldon: I don’t think you’re fully aware of the ramifications here, Leonard.

Leonard: Why don’t you enlighten me?
Sheldon: With the friendship clause of our roommate agreement nullified you are no longer entitled to accompany me to go swimming at Bill Gates’ house should I be invited.

Leonard: Hey, Sheldon? Listen, Penny is pretty sick and she’s not going to be able to go to Switzerland. So if you’re still interested, you’re welcome to come. (Sound of Sheldon vomiting in the bathroom)
Sheldon: Great. I’ll start packing. In a minute. (Vomits again) Oh, look, it’s the cholermus.

Penny: Here’s your soup.
Sheldon: Chicken?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: With the little stars?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Heated to 180 degrees?

Penny: Why don’t I pour it in your lap, and you can tell me.
Sheldon: You don’t have to be mean. I’m sick.

Penny: Yeah, well, I’m sick, too.
Sheldon: Not my problem. I just don’t understand how this happened to me. I’m scrupulous about my hygiene. I regularly disinfect my hands, and I avoid contact with other people on general principle.

Stuart: Well, you might want to mark your Google calendars. Stan Lee is coming to do a signing on Thursday.
Sheldon: Did he finally write a sequel to his autobiography? I’m sure ages 79 through 87 were just action-packed.

Stuart: No, just a regular comic signing. My uncle is his dermatologist and Stan’s doing him a favour.
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t want to know that! How can I possibly discuss with Stan Lee the scientific foundations for interstellar flight on a silver surfboard when part of my brain will be scanning his face for signs of contagious skin disease?

Leonard: Stan Lee does not have a contagious skin disease.
Sheldon: Well, look who thinks he’s Stuart’s uncle now.

Leonard: I can’t decide whether I want Stan Lee to autograph my Journey into Mystery 83, first appearance of Thor or my Fantastic Four number five, first appearance of Dr. Doom. (Raj presses his iPod. The theme from Jeopardy plays.) Alex, I’m going to go with what is… you’re a dumbass? (Presses again, his shirt blows a raspberry.)
Sheldon: I’ve decided I’m going to have Mr. Lee sign my copy of this month’s Batman.

Howard: That’s crazy. Stan Lee had nothing to do with Batman.
Sheldon: Yes, which is why no one else will ask him to sign one, and I will be the possessor of a unique, albeit confusing, artifact, which will set me apart from the hoi polloi of comic book fandom.

Raj: That’s a great idea, I’m going to get him to sign a Batman as well.
Sheldon: What is it about the word unique you don’t understand?

Raj: Well, obviously you don’t remember your circumcision.
Sheldon: There’s Neosporin and Band-Aids in my top desk drawer.

Leonard: He does. And in the kitchen. And in the car. And in his pocket.
Sheldon: Yeah, but the ones in my pocket are mine.

Howard: Sheldon, why do you have all these unopened paychecks in your desk?
Sheldon: Because most of the things I’m planning to buy haven’t been invented yet.

Howard: But there must be thousands of dollars here. Why don’t you put it in the bank?
Sheldon: I don’t trust banks. I believe that when the robots rise up, ATMs will lead the charge.

Howard: You’ve also got something from the Pasadena Municipal Court.
Sheldon: Undoubtedly yet another snide response to my repeated letters complaining that the flags in front of the courthouse are flying in the wrong order. From left to right, it’s supposed to be federal, state, and then city of Pasadena.

Penny: I’m sorry. You sent more than one letter about that?
Sheldon: It bothers me.

Howard: Sheldon, this is a summons.
Sheldon: A summons for what?

Howard: Looks like you ran a red light on Marengo Avenue at 9:30 p.m. on November 16. They got you on a traffic camera. Nice picture.
Sheldon: November 16? Penny, that’s the evening you fell in your bathtub and I had to drive you to the emergency room.

Penny: No, it isn’t.
Sheldon: Yes, it is.

Penny: No, it isn’t.
Sheldon: Penny, I have an eidetic memory. Also, that’s a picture of you in the passenger seat holding your dislocated shoulder.

Penny: Mmm, no, it isn’t.
Sheldon: Okay, then why is a summons for a traffic violation committed in your car, bearing your license plates, coming to me?

Penny: Okay, look, they sent me the ticket. I told them I wasn’t driving and they were all, if it wasn’t you, who was it?
Sheldon: So you betrayed me?

Penny: No! It wasn’t a betrayal. It was more of a can’t afford any more points on my license. I already have to buy my insurance from this place in the Cayman Islands.
Sheldon: But the only reason I was driving your car was because you were in distress and I was rescuing you.

Leonard: It’s not that big a deal. You just go down to the court on Thursday and you pay the fine.
Sheldon: I’m not going to pay a fine. That would imply I’m guilty.

Howard: You are guilty. (Raj’s shirt plays the gavel sound from Law & Order) That one I liked.
Sheldon: I am not guilty. I only have a learner’s permit, Penny was the teacher. When the light turned yellow she said go, go, go, so I went, went, went.

Penny: Sheldon, I’m sorry. I’ll be happy to reimburse you for the fine. You know, as soon as I get a part in a movie or my own TV series.
Sheldon: You don’t need to reimburse me because I’m not paying. On Thursday, I will have my day in court and justice will be done. In fact, I’m going to begin preparing my defence right now.

Leonard (after Raj whispers to him): Oh, that’s right. Thursday is Stan Lee Day.
Sheldon: Now you see what you’ve done? Because of you, we’re all going to miss Stan Lee.

Leonard: Whoa! What do you mean all?
Sheldon: Well, you’re my friends. You’ll be standing by my side, supporting me, feeding me legal precedents, and if you had the upper body strength, carrying me out on your shoulders when I’m victorious.

Leonard: Yeah, okay. No.
Sheldon: Are you saying that you will not stand beside me as I plead my case?

Leonard: That’s what I’m saying.
Sheldon: Howard?

Howard: Wow. Uh, Stan Lee, or you in court? Uh, if this was Sophie’s Choice it would’ve been a much shorter movie. No.
Sheldon: Raj? You’ll be there, won’t you? (Shirt plays “incorrect” quiz sound) All right, then, my so-called friends have forsaken me. So, I guess it’ll just be me and my eyewitness.

Penny: Oh, balls.
Sheldon: Please try to wear something appropriate. It won’t help my case if the judge is busy trying to read the word Juicy scrawled across your buttocks.

Scene: Penny’s door. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny (opening door): (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.
Sheldon: That’s just wrong.

Penny: All right, let’s go.
Sheldon: Wait, hold on. Before we get to the courthouse, I’d like to call on your skills as an actress.

Penny: What is this?
Sheldon: I’ve taken the liberty of scripting your appearance on the witness stand because, let’s face it, you’re somewhat of a loose cannon. Now, don’t worry, it’s written in your vernacular. So shall we rehearse?

Penny: Do I have a choice?
Sheldon: Well, of course you have a choice. Although we live in a deterministic universe, each individual has free will. Now, sit down. I call your attention to the events of November 16. Do you remember that date?

Penny (reading): Darn tootin’, I do, if the court will excuse my homespun, corn-fed Nebraskan turn of phrase.
Sheldon: Excellent. Go on.

Penny: The reason that date is, like, so totally fixed in my memory is that I had the privilege to be witness to one of the most heroic acts I’ve ever seen in, like, ever.
Sheldon: And who performed that heroic act?

Penny: Why, you did, sir. You. Dr. Sheldon Cooper, and may I add, it is a privilege to know you.
Sheldon: There’s no need for compliments, this court is only interested in the facts.

Penny: But it is a fact that it’s a privilege to know you. Totally. A teardrop rolls down my cheek?
Sheldon: Only a suggestion. A catch in your throat would work just as well.

Penny (pretending to be close to tears): But it is a fact that it’s a privilege to know you. Totally.
Sheldon: Maybe you should put on your Juicy pants again.

Judge: Pay the cashier. Sheldon Cooper?
Sheldon: Good morning, Your Honour. Dr. Sheldon Cooper appearing in pro se. That is to say, representing himself.

Judge: I know what it means. I went to law school.
Sheldon: And yet you wound up in traffic court. Anyway, if it would please the court, I’d like to begin with an opening statement.

Judge: The court would advise you to make it quick, as the court had a dicey-looking breakfast burrito this morning and just took an Imodium.
Sheldon: Very well, a quick opening statement. Like a milking stool, my case rests on three legs. I will demonstrate that I was improperly instructed in driving by a woman whose lack of respect for society borders on the sociopathic. I will argue that the emergency met the legal doctrine of quod est necessarium est licitum, that which is necessary is legal. But first, I will raise a Sixth Amendment issue. I’m unable to confront my accuser, a non-human entity, to wit, a camera. So, to sum up, improper instruction, quod est necessarium est licitum, Sixth Amendment. My milk stool is complete.

Judge: Impressive.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Judge: Guilty. Pay the cashier.
Sheldon: I object. You’re completely ignoring the law.

Judge: No, I’m following the law. I’m ignoring you.
Sheldon: Really? I would point out that I am at the top of my profession, while you preside over the kiddy table of yours.

Judge: Dr. Cooper, before I find you in contempt and throw you in jail, I’m going to give you a chance to apologize for that last remark.
Sheldon: I am a scientist. I never apologize for the truth.

Scene: A police cell. Three people sit on a bench inside. Sheldon points at the one on the end.
Sheldon: That’s my spot.

Scene: The police cell. 
Sheldon: Excuse me? Excuse me, jailor?

Guard: What?
Sheldon: I need to use the restroom.

Guard: Knock yourself out. (Points to urinal in cell)
Sheldon: That’s the toilet?

Guard: Well, it ain’t a wishing well.
Sheldon: Please tell the judge I’m ready to apologize.

Leonard: Oh, hey, buddy. How’d it go?
Sheldon: You know very well how it went.

Leonard: Yeah, but we all want to hear it from you.
Sheldon: I was found guilty and fined $533.

Penny: I’m going to write you a cheque for that. As long as you promise to put it in your drawer and never cash it, like the others.
Sheldon: I also now have three points on a driver’s licence I do not yet possess, and I was forced to issue an undeserved apology, simply because I refuse to urinate in a stainless steel bowl in front of criminals.

Howard: You’re right, so it would be cruel to mention that after he finished signing autographs, Stan Lee took Stuart and us out for gelato.
Sheldon: You had gelato with Stan Lee?

Leonard: Except for Raj.
Sheldon: Well, I hope you’re satisfied, Penny. You are responsible for all the evil that has befallen me today.

Penny: Okay, I realize that…
Sheldon: Not finished. It is because of you that I now have a criminal record, and it is because of you that I missed out on having gelato with Stan Lee.

Penny: Okay, maybe you’ll have another chance to have…
Sheldon: No, no. I will never have another chance to have gelato with Stan Lee because opportunities to have gelato with Stan Lee come but once in a lifetime. The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on!

Scene: Outside Stan Lee’s house.
Sheldon: This is Stan Lee’s front door. We were on Stan Lee’s curb, then we were on Stan Lee’s walk, and now we’re at Stan Lee’s front door.

Penny: Yup.
Sheldon: Oh, Lord, you just rang Stan Lee’s doorbell. At Stan Lee’s house. We’re about to go in and have milk and cookies with Stan Lee.

Penny: Hi. I’m Penny. This is my friend, Sheldon.
Sheldon: We’re not friends at the moment. Depends on how this goes.

Stan Lee: I see. And you thought you’d just come over to my house uninvited?
Sheldon: You said we were invited.

Stan Lee: You know, you fan boys are unbelievable. Do you think you can just ring my doorbell any time you want? I mean, why don’t you just come on in and watch the Lakers game with me?
Sheldon: Well, I’m not much of a sports fan, but thank you.

Leonard (as Sheldon enters): Hey, where’ve you been?
Sheldon: I’ll tell you where I’ve been. You boys may have had gelato with Stan Lee and gotten autographed comics, but I saw the inside of his house and got an autographed application for a restraining order.

Howard: Sweet.
Sheldon: Plus, I get to hang out with him again at the hearing. This is going to look great hanging next to my restraining order from Leonard Nimoy.

Leonard: Why do I always have to carry the heavy stuff?
Sheldon: Well, it’s very simple. In our ragtag band of scientists with nothing to lose, I’m the smart one, Wolowitz is the funny one, and Koothrappali is the lovable foreigner who struggles to understand our ways and fails. That leaves you, by default, as the muscle.

Penny: Oh, no, you didn’t trade the food for magic beans, did you?
Sheldon: Of course not. And, technically, magic beans would be food, although eating them would be quite a waste, since you could plant them and overnight have a giant beanstalk, which would provide enough roughage for a small city.

Penny: Who’s Adam West?
Sheldon: Who’s Adam West? Leonard, what do the two of you talk about after the coitus?

Penny: That is so sad.
Sheldon: No, what’s sad is that you don’t know Adam West was TV’s Batman.

Howard: You see what you’re doing? Stop that.
Sheldon: Fascinating.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: It appears to be a Lord of the Rings ring.

Raj: It’s even got the Elvish engraving on it.
Sheldon: It’s not Elvish. It’s the language of Mordor written in Elvish script. One Ring to

Raj: Hold on. Sheldon, is there ketchup on that table?
Sheldon: Yes, there is. Oh, here’s a fun fact, ketchup started out as a general term for sauce, typically made of, uh, mushrooms or fish brine with herbs and spices. Some popular early main ingredients included blueberry, anchovy, oyster, kidney bean and grape.

Howard: Eddie Crispo. Anyway, he said this isn’t a replica. It’s the real deal.
Sheldon: If you’re suggesting that that is the actual ring of power forged by Sauron in Mount Doom, I look at you with an expression of exhaustion and ever so slight amusement.

Leonard: No, it is not yours. We all went in on the box together.
Sheldon: Well, yes, but I found it in the box, and the laws of maritime salvage clearly state that the finder of a sunken treasure is the owner of the treasure.

Leonard: How is this maritime salvage?
Sheldon: Other than the lack of water, how is it not?

Raj: All the wealthy and beautiful people in movies ride Jet Skis. That can’t just be a coincidence.
Sheldon: We can’t sell it. We have to keep it and love it and polish it, and only take it out occasionally when we go to the park and re-enact our favourite scenes from the movies.

Leonard: We are not blackmailing Peter J… All right, where’s the ring?
Sheldon: You mean my ring?

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: The ring was unguarded, it was just sitting on the table, anyone could have taken it. Proof? I did.

Raj: Look, let’s be reasonable. We all want to do different things with the ring, but your ideas are stupid, and I want a jet ski.
Sheldon: I found it. The ring is mine. I don’t understand why in this group I never get my way.

Leonard: You always get your way.
Sheldon: I’ll stipulate to that if you give me the ring.

Leonard: This ring.
Sheldon: Looking for something?

Scene: Penny and Leonard are asleep in Leonard’s bed. Sheldon creeps in and tries to take the ring from round Penny’s neck, but she turns over. He tries to make buzzing fly noises to get her to turn back, but she turns all the way the other way. He then uses an extender with a claw on the end to lif the ring from Penny’s chest. As he tries to remove it, she wakes up, screams, and punches him in the face.
Sheldon: Ow! You hit me! I’m bleeding!

Howard: So, Sheldon, how’s it feel to get beaten up by a girl?
Sheldon:  It’s not the first time. I have a twin sister whose assaults began in utero. If only I’d had the presence of mind to reabsorb her, then I’d have a mole with hair in it instead of a tedious yearly Christmas letter.

Leonard: You know what? I am ending this. Penny didn’t want to hold the ring anymore. She gave it to me, I have it. I’m sending it back. Where’s the ring?
Sheldon: You mean this ring? Next time be aware of your surroundings while urinating in a public men’s room.

Leonard: Give me that.
Sheldon: No, it’s mine.

Leonard: And it wasn’t when we were driving like this?
Sheldon: I would advise the three of you that resistance is futile. I have endless patience. I once spent two-and-a-half hours on hold with Hewlett-Packard customer service just to complain about their customer service.

Raj: If you’re offended, let go of the ring and go on home to your mother’s boobies.
Sheldon: Excellent, excellent. Tire each other out, the ring will be mine. Howard, why don’t you go after Raj’s mother?

Raj: Why don’t we go after your mother?
Sheldon: Go ahead. I have no illusions about my mother. She is a kind, loving, religiously fanatical right-wing Texan with a slightly out-of-scale head and a mild Dr. Pepper addiction. Anything you’d like to add?

Raj: You’re right. Let’s talk about your grandmother.
Sheldon: No! I call no Meemaws.

Raj: Think about this. The only way your mother was born was your Meemaw had sex.
Sheldon: I don’t want to hear this.

Howard: Then let go of the ring and walk away.
Sheldon: Never.

Howard: All right. I’ll bet your Meemaw didn’t just have sex to have your mother. I bet she had sex because she liked it.
Sheldon: Stop it!

Raj: Yeah, Meemaw did the nasty.
Sheldon: I said stop it!

Howard: We’re getting to him.
Sheldon: Waterfalls!

Raj: What?
Sheldon: Waterfalls. Crashing waves. Babbling brooks.

Howard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: Subliminal messaging. I’m going to make you want to pee. Dripping faucets. Leaky gutter. Peeing.

Raj: It’s, it’s not working, dude.
Sheldon: Oh-ho-ho, it’s working all right. I have to pee.

Raj: Fine. Um, on the count of three. One, two…
Sheldon: Wait, just to clarify. When you get to three, do we stand up or do we pee?

Howard: We stand up.
Sheldon: Excellent choice.

Scene: Sometime later. The guys are on the settee. Howard is seen asleep, he is not holding the ring. The camera pans along to where Sheldon and Raj still hold the ring. Raj, also asleep, lets go and cuddles up to Howard. 
Sheldon: I’ve done it! I’ve won! The ring is mine! It’s mine! (He runs to the bathroom) We’re going to clean it up and make it pretty. My own. My love. My precious. (He looks in the mirror and has turned into golem. He screams and wakes up, still on the settee.) Where’s the ring?

Scene: Leonard and Penny are asleep in Leonard’s bed. The extender and claw reaches across and pulls down the sheet revealing the ring on a chain round Leonard’s neck.
Sheldon: I knew it. Give us the precious!

Raj: My point is, if I were a horse or a bird, I’d be very nervous around James Cameron.
Sheldon: It amazes me how you constantly obsess over fictional details when there are more important things in the real world to worry about. For example, why wasn’t William Shatner in the new Star Trek movie?

Leonard: Hey, Sheldon, I was up in the administration office, and I happened to overhear the name of the winner of this year’s Chancellor’s Award for Science.
Sheldon: And you want to rub my nose in the fact that my contributions are being overlooked again? I am the William Shatner of theoretical physics. All right, I’ll play. What self-important, preening fraud are they honouring this year?

Leonard: Oh, I’m so glad you asked it like that. You.
Sheldon: I won?

Leonard: You won.
Sheldon: I won! This is astonishing. Not that I won the award, no one deserves it more. Actually, I guess I misspoke. It’s not astonishing, more like inevitable. I’m not sure what to do first. Maybe I should call my mother. Wait! I know, I’m going to conduct an interview with myself and post it online.

Howard: Uh, hang on, flaming arrow.
Sheldon: Hello? Oh, Chancellor Morton, how are you, sir? Yes, I was expecting your call (aside) three years ago. I see. Wait. What happens if I choose not to give a speech? Uh-huh. And if I don’t want to forfeit the award? Well, you’ve got that tied up in a neat little bow. All right. Thank you. (Hangs up) Problem.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: They expect me to give a speech at the banquet. I can’t give a speech.

Raj: Yeah, before the movie, you did 20 minutes on why guacamole turns brown. It turned brown while you were talking.
Sheldon: I am perfectly comfortable speaking to small groups. I cannot speak to large crowds.

Leonard: What, to you, is a large crowd?
Sheldon: Any group big enough to trample me to death. General rule of thumb is 36 adults or 70 children.

Penny: Sheldon, congratulations. Brought you cheesecake from work. You know, ’cause of your award, not because a busboy sneezed on it.
Sheldon: I’m not accepting the award.

Penny: That’s no reason to back out. You know, I once got a pretty big honour in high school, and I was terrified about appearing in front of a big crowd, but I went through with it, and you know what? The world looked pretty darn good sitting on a haystack in the back of a Ford F-150 as a member of the Corn Queen’s court.
Sheldon: Thank you. Yeah, I’ll bear that in mind if I’m ever nominated for the Hillbilly Peace Prize.

Leonard: Sheldon, you’re being ridiculous.
Sheldon: Am I? Let me tell you a story.

Howard: Where’s 70 children when you need ‘em?
Sheldon: I was 14 and graduating summa cum laude from college. Summa cum laude is Latin for with highest honours.

Penny: I just love how you always skip over the part where no one asks.
Sheldon: I was valedictorian and expected to give an address. Even now, I can remember that moment when I walked up to the podium and looked out at the crowd. There must have been thousands of people. My heart started pounding in my chest. I began to hyperventilate. My vision became blurry, and before I knew it… oh, dear. (He faints.)

Leonard: Sheldon? Sheldon, are you okay?
Sheldon: Don’t trample me.

Scene: The stairwell. Sheldon is on the phone.
Sheldon: Come on, Mother, you know why I can’t accept the award. With all due respect, I don’t think praying will help. No, I have not heard the song, Jesus, Take the Wheel. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, you don’t need to start singing it. Yes, I’ll buy it on the iTunes, Mother. Good-bye, Mother. (Enters apartment. The others are sitting as if waiting for him.) Hello.

Leonard: Sit down, we want to talk to you.
Sheldon: Am I in trouble? Did my mother call you?

Leonard: We think we can help you with your stage fright.
Sheldon: Oh, I doubt that. I haven’t figured out a way, and I’m much smarter than all of you.

Penny: Yes, but you’re not smarter than all of us put together.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m sorry, that is what I meant.

Leonard: We can help you. We can be your team. Like, uh, Professor Xavier and his X-Men.
Sheldon: I do like the X-Men.

Penny: Oh. I say a lot of things, sweetie. So, how about it, Sheldon?
Sheldon: I don’t know. If you’re my X-Men, what are your powers?

Penny: Okay. Well, I am going to take you shopping, get you a nice suit. Might give you more confidence.
Sheldon: That’s not exactly a mutation that would get you into Xavier’s School for Gifted Youngsters, but go on. Leonard?

Leonard: I thought I could try to analyze you and get to the root of your anxiety.
Sheldon: What qualifies you to attempt to understand my mind?

Howard: Raj says he can teach you, what did you call it? I don’t know, some Indian meditation crap.
Sheldon: I see. Well, I assume, since the rest of you have set the bar so low, you’re saving the most impressive contribution for last. Go ahead, Howard. Dazzle me.

Howard: My power is the ability to pretend like I give a damn about your piddly-ass problems. And that’s 24-7, buddy.
Sheldon: And I appreciate the pretence.

Penny: So, what do you say, Sheldon? Are we your X-Men?
Sheldon: No. The X-Men were named for the X in Charles Xavier. Since I am Sheldon Cooper, you will be my C-Men.

Raj: Okay, Sheldon. I’m going to be leading you through a series of meditation exercises. These methods come from the ancient gurus of India and have helped me overcome my own fears.
Sheldon: And yet, you can’t speak to women.

Raj: True, but thanks to meditation, I am able to stay in the same room with them without urinating. Now, close your eyes.
Sheldon: Okay, but don’t punch me.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: When I was little, my sister would say to me, close your eyes, you’ll get a surprise, and then she’d punch me.

Raj: I’m not going to punch you.
Sheldon: That’s what my sister used to say.

Raj: Do you want to do this or not?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Proceed.

Raj: All right. Imagine yourself in the one place you feel most at home. Where is that?
Sheldon: Sim City. More specifically, the Sim City I designed, Sheldonopolis.

Raj: Okay, you’re in Sheldonopolis.
Sheldon: Where exactly? Sheldon Square? Sheldon Towers? Sheldon Stadium, home of the Fighting Sheldons?

Raj: Whatever you like.
Sheldon: I thought this was supposed to be a guided meditation.

Raj: Fine. You’re in Sheldon Square.
Sheldon: Really? This time of year? It’s a bit nippy.

Raj: Then, put on a sweater.
Sheldon: Suppose I could run downtown and pick up something at Shel-Mart.

Raj: Yeah, whatever. Just go buy a sweater.
Sheldon: You know, the nice thing about Shel-Mart is I own it, so I get a 15% discount.

Raj: You own the damn thing. Just take a freaking sweater!
Sheldon: Look, I didn’t turn a profit last quarter by taking product off the shelves willy-nilly.

Raj: All right. You’ve paid for a sweater, and you’re in Sheldon Square.
Sheldon: Hang on. It’s a cardigan. I have to button it. Oh, no.

Raj: What now?
Sheldon: A Godzilla-like monster is approaching the city. I have to get my people to safety. People of Sheldonopolis, this is your mayor. Follow me. If the children can’t run, leave them behind. Oh, the simulated horror! (Sound of door slamming) Raj? Just as I suspected. Meditation is nothing but hokum.

Scene: A clothing store.
Sheldon: I question your premise. How is a new suit going to prevent me from passing out in front of a ballroom full of people?

Penny: It’ll give you confidence. You know, sometimes when I’m feeling all stressed out about something, I go out and buy a cute top or a fun skirt and I have a whole new outlook on life.
Sheldon: Don’t you eventually realize you’re just the same stressed out person in a cute top or a fun skirt?

Penny: Yeah, that’s when I buy shoes. Now, let’s see what we’ve got. Ooh! This is nice.
Sheldon: It’s only one colour.

Penny: Yeah, so?
Sheldon: That’s a lot of money for only one colour.

Penny: Fine. Why don’t you pick out what you like.
Sheldon: Hmm. (Cut to Sheldon exiting changing room in a loud check suit). This is pretty sharp.

Penny: Where the hell d’you find that?
Sheldon: In the prom department.

Penny: It’s ridiculous.
Sheldon: Says the former member of the Corn Queen’s Court.

Penny: Please just try this one on.
Sheldon: Okay. But anything I put on now is only going to suffer in comparison. (Goes into changing room. Comes out in black suit looking terrific.) This is absurd. I look like a clown.

Leonard: So, Sheldon, how you doing?
Sheldon: That’s how you start a psychotherapy session? How am I doing? I was promised a riverboat journey into the jungles of my subconscious. Instead, I get the same question I hear from the lady who slices my bologna at Ralph’s.

Leonard: I’m sorry, I’ll start again.
Sheldon: Would it be helpful to you if I told you about my dreams?

Leonard: Um, I don’t know, maybe.
Sheldon: I recently had a dream that I was a giant. But everything around me was to scale, so it all looked normal.

Leonard: How did you know you were a giant if everything was to scale?
Sheldon: I was wearing size a million pants.

Leonard: Why don’t we just talk?
Sheldon: Ah, the talking cure. Classical Freudian, good choice. If it will help speed things along, uh, my answers to the standard Rorschach ink blot test are A, a bat, B, a bat, C, a bat, and D, my father killing my mother with a hypodermic needle.

Leonard: Why don’t I just start? Sometimes people have trouble accepting accolades if, on a subconscious level, they don’t feel they deserve them. Do you think maybe that’s what’s happening here?
Sheldon: Really, Leonard? You’re just going to try to recycle Adler’s doctrine of the inferiority complex? I could probably get that from the woman at Ralph’s. And she’d let me taste some pieces of cheese for free.

Leonard: But it could be part of your problem. Let me give you an example. When I was eight, I won a ribbon at the science fair for my project, “Do Lima Beans Grow Better to Classical Music.” But my mother pointed out that it was just a rehash of my brother’s earlier “Do Lima Beans Grow Worse to Rock ‘n’ Roll.” I felt so guilty, I gave the ribbon back.
Sheldon: And how did that make you feel?

Leonard: Terrible. I worked really hard on that project. I stayed up all night singing the clown’s aria from Pagliacci to a lima bean sprout.
Sheldon: Go on.

Leonard: It wasn’t my fault. I had never seen my brother’s project. And my mother could’ve told me before instead of at the ceremony in front of everyone.
Sheldon: So, I hear you saying you’re angry with your mother.

Leonard: Damn right, I’m angry with my mother. For God’s sake, I was eight years old. She humiliated me. That’s when the bed-wetting started again.
Sheldon: Thank you, Leonard.

Leonard: For what?
Sheldon: If someone as damaged as you can find his way to crawl out of bed each morning, I think I can face a simple award ceremony.

Leonard: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Dr. Leonard Hofstadter, and it is my very great honour to introduce the winner of this year’s Chancellor’s award for Science and my good friend, Dr. Sheldon Cooper. But before I do, I’d like to share with you a letter from Sheldon’s mother, who couldn’t be here tonight. Isn’t that nice? His mother sent him a letter. She’s proud of him. I wonder what that feels like. Dear Shelly. That’s what she calls him. Shelly, it’s a pet name. You know what my mother’s pet name for me is? Leonard. But I digress. Dear Shelly. I am so proud of… (continues as background noise)
Sheldon: Oh, dear.

Penny: What’s the matter?
Sheldon: I’m getting dizzy.

Raj: Don’t worry. You’re surrounded by your C-Men.
Sheldon: I can’t do this. I’m going to faint.

Penny: Here, drink this. It’ll relax you.
Sheldon: Alcohol? I don’t drink alcohol.

Penny: Fine, faint.
Sheldon: I don’t feel different, this alcohol’s defective.

Leonard (still talking): First of all, the projects were totally different. I was showing that classical music nurtures lima beans and makes them grow, but my mother didn’t hear me. If you’d like to look at the relationship between nurturing and growth, I’d like to point out that my brother is eight inches taller than me.
Sheldon: I’m ready.

Leonard: Oh, right. Ladies and gentlemen, our guest of honour, Dr. Sheldon Cooper.
Sheldon: Thanks, shorty,I’ll take it from here. All right, you people ready to have some fun? You have a basic understanding of differential calculus and at least one year of algebraic topology? Well, then here come the jokes. Why did the chicken cross the Mobius strip? To get to the same side, bazinga! All right, a neutron walks into a bar and asks, how much for a drink? The bartender says, for you, no charge. Hello? I know you’re out there. I can hear you metabolizing oxygen and expelling carbon dioxide. Looks like we have some academic dignitaries in the audience. Dr. Randall from the geology department, only man who’s happy when they take his work for granite. Ba-da cha! I kid the geologists, of course, but it’s only ’cause I have no respect for the field. Let’s get serious for a moment. Why are we all here? ‘Cause we’re scientists. And what do scientists study? The universe. And what’s the universe made of? I am so glad you asked. (Singing) There’s antimony, arsenic, aluminium, selenium, and hydrogen and oxygen and nitrogen and rhenium, and nickel, neodymium,

 
Sheldon: Penny, Leonard. Would you be able to answer some questions I’m having about the events of last night?

Penny: Sure.
Sheldon: Question one, where are my pants?

Leonard: You might want to check YouTube.
Sheldon: What do I search?

On-screen Sheldon: All right, people, let’s get down to the math. It is only three dimensional thinking that limits our imagination. Can I take my pants off over my head? Of course not. My body’s in the way. But if we had access to higher dimensions, we could move our pants around our bodies through the fourth dimension and our days of dropping trousers would be over.
Sheldon: Oh, Lord, this couldn’t be any more humiliating.

Raj: Sheldon says impossible. Howard and I say not only possible, but as a mode of transportation, way cooler than a Batmobile.
Sheldon: You are ignoring the square-cube law. The giant ant would be crushed under the weight of its own exoskeleton. And for the record, the appropriate ranking of cool modes of transportation is jet pack, hoverboard, transporter, Batmobile, and then giant ant.

Howard: What’s with him?
Sheldon: Perhaps he’s at a sensitive point in his monthly cycle.

Howard: Are you saying he’s man-struating?
Sheldon: Not literally. But as far back as the 17th century, scientists observed a 33-day fluctuation in men’s hormone levels.

Raj: Big or small, I don’t like rabbits. They always look like they’re about to say something, but they never do.
Sheldon: Rabbits do have a respiratory system that would support great size. And on a side note, they are one of the few mammals whose scrotum is in front of the penis.

Howard: Would that be a giant rat’s ass?
Sheldon: For the record, giant rats are possible.

Howard: Okay, how about this for a topic, why is Leonard being a giant douche? Assuming giant douches are possible.
Sheldon: Of course they are. Leonard’s being one.

Leonard: I don’t want to talk about it.
Sheldon: But I sense you’re going to and I don’t want to hear about it. Excuse me.

Stuart: You guys still on for bowling tonight?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. In fact, I’ve prepared some trash talk for the occasion. You bowl like your mama. Unless, of course, she bowls well. In which case, you bowl nothing like her.

Stuart: Oh. Ouch.
Sheldon: That is what is referred to as a burn on you.

Leonard: Oh, hey.
Sheldon: Good, Penny, reminder, bowling tonight at seven o’clock.

Penny: No, no, it’s okay. I mean, let’s face it, you guys would get creamed without me.
Sheldon: We would indeed. In this particular case, your lack of femininity works to our advantage.

Penny: It’s always nice chatting with you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Penny: Thinly veiled contempt.
Sheldon: Remember, seven o’clock.

Penny: Got it.
Sheldon: Pacific Daylight time!

Penny: Bite me!
Sheldon: Please reserve that butch spirit for the lanes.

Howard: I thought you were bringing your own bowling shoes.
Sheldon: These are my own bowling shoes.

Howard: Then what’s with the disinfectant?
Sheldon: I know where my feet have been.

Wil: Hi, Sheldon. How’s it going?
Sheldon: Well, well, well. If it isn’t Wil Wheaton, the Green Goblin to my Spider-Man, the Pope Paul the fifth to my Galileo, the Internet Explorer to my Firefox.

Wil: You’re not still carrying a grudge because I beat you at that card tournament, are you?
Sheldon: I’m the proud owner of Wil Wheaton stinks dot com, dot net, and dot org. What does that tell you?

Wil: It tells me that I am living rent-free right here (pointing at Sheldon’s head). You ready to bowl?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m ready. I don’t know if Stuart told you what you’re up against tonight, but before you stands the co-captain of the East Texas Christian Youth Holy Roller Bowling League championship team. Seven to twelve year-old division. Also, Penny’s pretty good.

Wil: Great. Then it’s on.
Sheldon: Oh, foolish Wil Wheaton, it was never off.

Wil: Yes!
Sheldon: A common spare. The Miss Congeniality of the bowling pageant. Before you jump on Twitter to tout your modest accomplishment, watch how it’s really done. I am the ball. My thoughts are its thoughts. Its holes are my holes. (Gets a strike) Yes. Tweet that, Tweety Bird.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: This is for you.

Penny: Ice cream?
Sheldon: I’ve been familiarizing myself with female emotional crises by studying the comic strip Cathy. When she’s upset, she says Ach and eats ice cream.

Penny: Um, Ach.
Sheldon: If you were a cat, I would have brought you a lasagna.

Penny: Did Leonard send you over here?
Sheldon: No, we haven’t spoken since your abrupt departure last night caused us to forfeit to Stuart and his dastardly ringer Wil Wheaton.

Penny: Yeah, I’m sorry about that.
Sheldon: I’m not too proud to admit that I cried myself to sleep.

Penny: Again, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: And let me tell you sleep did not come easily with Leonard in the next room singing along with Alanis Morrisette.

Penny: You’re kidding.
Sheldon: No. Clearly another woman in dire need of ice cream.

Penny: All right, Sheldon, what part of this is supposed to make me feel better?
Sheldon: The part where I tell you I’ve engineered a rematch with Stuart’s team for tonight.

Penny: Oh, honey, I don’t know. Things are a little weird with Leonard right now.
Sheldon: You want me to remove him from the team? I’m the captain, I can do that.

Penny: No, no, that’s okay. Just let me talk to him, and I’ll get back to you.
Sheldon: When are you going to talk to him?

Penny: I don’t know.
Sheldon: He’s in the laundry room now. Now would be a good time.

Penny: You’re not gonna leave me alone until I do it, are you?
Sheldon: Oh, I think we both know the answer to that question.

Leonard: Yes, that’s what I’m telling you. We are good. We are great.
Sheldon: All right! Fence mended, problem swept under the rug. Time to bowl! Yes, I was eavesdropping, there’s a lot at stake here.

 
Sheldon: Attention, all bowlers. I’ve taken the liberty of having these made for our rematch.

Penny: The Wesley Crushers?
Sheldon: No, not the Wesley Crushers. The Wesley “Crushers.”

Penny: Still don’t get it.
Sheldon: It’s a blindingly clever play on words. By appropriating his character’s name and adding the S, we imply that we we’ll be the crushers of Wesley.

Penny: Okay, I’m sorry, honey, but the Wesley Crushers sounds like a bunch of people who like Wesley Crusher.
Sheldon: What? No! Again, it’s not the Wesley Crushers. It’s the Wesley “Crushers.”

Howard: You know, if you want it to mean you’re crushing Wesley, it’d be the “Wesley” Crushers.
Sheldon: Do you people even hear yourselves? It’s not the Wesley Crushers. It’s not the “Wesley” Crushers. It’s the Wesley “Crushers.”

Wil: Hey, look. They named their team after me.
Sheldon: No, it’s not the… Never mind.

Stuart: So, we’re all clear on the bet and the stakes?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. The losers will be publicly humiliated in a fashion to be chosen by the victor. FYI, I plan on having you publish a scientific paper expounding the discredited Velikovsky hypothesis.

Wil: Hey, Sheldon, I just wanted you to know that I’m really looking forward to wiping the floor with you.
Sheldon: Oh, yes? Well, before I respond, let me ask you a question. Is your mother a good or poor bowler?

Wil: After you.
Sheldon: No, after you, as we are currently crushing you, Wesley.

Wil: It’s customary for the player on the right-hand lane to bowl first.
Sheldon: All right.

Wil: It’s a custom, not a rule.
Sheldon: I so loathe you.

Wil: That’s right, Sheldon. Embrace the dark side.
Sheldon: That’s not even from your franchise!

Stuart: Mmm, mmm. People from opposite sides often have good relationships. You know, Romeo and Juliet, Tony and Maria from West Side Story, what’s-his-name and the big blue chick in Avatar. I’m gonna bowl now.
Sheldon: Be the ball, Howard.

Howard: Leave me alone, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You weren’t the ball.

All (chanting): Shel-don! Shel-don! Shel-don! Shel-don!
Sheldon: Excuse me. I don’t know who you’re chanting for as I am currently the ball.

All (chanting): The ball! The ball! The ball! The ball! The ball! The ball!
Sheldon: Thank you, Jesus! As my mother would say.

Wil: Oh, that’s me.
Sheldon: Did you let Wil Wheaton get in your head?

Penny: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: He’s evil. He plays evil mind games. Did he tell you his grandmother died?

Penny: No!
Sheldon: Well, if he does, don’t believe it. He’s not above playing the dead meemaw card.

Wil: Yes!
Sheldon: Enjoy the accolades now, Wil Wheaton, but like your time on Star Trek: Next Generation, your smug self-satisfaction will be short-lived.

Leonard: Penny, you’re up.
Sheldon: All right, remember, his meemaw’s alive and be the ball.

Penny: No, this isn’t fair to you, Leonard. I’m sorry.
Sheldon: Wait! Where are you going? Penny, come back! I’ll get you ice cream!

Leonard: No, let her go.
Sheldon: Are you insane? If she leaves, it’s over!

Wil: Tough luck, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You did this, didn’t you?

Wil: Do you think I would really break up a couple just to win a bowling match?
Sheldon: No, I suppose not.

Wil: Good. Keep thinking that.
Sheldon: Wheaton!

Penny: Oh, damn, they cancelled my Visa. Oh, yay, a new MasterCard!
Sheldon: Uh-oh.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: I was going to get my mail.

Penny: Okay. Are, are you hoping to get it telepathically?
Sheldon: I think you mean telekinetically. And no, I just wasn’t sure of the proper protocol now that you and Leonard are no longer having coitus.

Penny: God, can we please just say no longer seeing each other?
Sheldon: Well, we could if it were true. But as you live in the same building, you see each other all the time. The variable which has changed is the coitus.

Penny: Okay, here’s the protocol, you and I are still friends, and you stop saying coitus.
Sheldon: Good, good. I’m glad we’re still friends.

Penny: Really?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. It was a lot of work to accommodate you in my life. I’d hate for that effort to have been in vain.

Penny: Right.
Sheldon: Just to be clear do I have to stop saying coitus with everyone or just you?

Penny: Everyone.
Sheldon: Harsh terms. But all right, I’ll just substitute intercourse.

Penny: Great.
Sheldon: Or fornication. Yeah. But that has judgmental overtones, so I’ll hold that in reserve.

Penny: So, how you been?
Sheldon: Well, my existence is a continuum, so I’ve been what I am at each point in the implied time period.

Penny: You’re just coitusing with me, aren’t you?
Sheldon: Bazinga.

Penny: Mmm. How’s Leonard doing?
Sheldon: He seems all right. Although he does spend a disturbing amount of time looking at photographs of you and smelling the pillow you slept on. Oh, but now that I think of it, he asked me not to tell you that.

Penny: I’ll pretend I didn’t hear it.
Sheldon: I’d rather you pretend I didn’t say it. I see you bought Mama Italia marinara spaghetti sauce.

Penny: Yep.
Sheldon: That’s the sauce my mother uses. She likes cooking Italian because according to her, that’s what the Romans made Jesus eat.

Penny: Interesting. I’ll have to have you over for spaghetti some night.
Sheldon: I’m hungry now.

Penny: Oh. Um, okay. Why don’t you give me an hour and come over?
Sheldon: Will you cut up hot dogs into little chunks and mix them in with the sauce?

Penny: I don’t have hot dogs.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s all right, I do. Oh! You’re in for what my mother calls a real Eye-talian treat. (Enters apartment).

Leonard: Hey, where you been?
Sheldon: I was talking with Penny.

Raj: Yeah, he’s over it, that’s why he’s been whining all day about trying to invent that memory-wiper gizmo from Men in Black.
Sheldon: Is he making any progress? Because I’d like to erase Ben Affleck as Daredevil.

Howard: So would Ben Affleck. The point is, in a situation like this you got to pick sides. You’re either on Team Leonard or Team Penny.
Sheldon: Which one picks last?

Howard: What?
Sheldon: Well, usually I’m on the team that picks last. Unless there’s a kid in a wheelchair.

Leonard: Sheldon, I got you your tangerine chicken. I hope you’re hungry.
Sheldon: Well, of course I’m hungry. And as I have no plans to eat with any other team, I will consume my tangerine chicken with the appropriate gusto. Mm, mm, mm!

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: Just out of curiosity, do we still have hot dogs?

Leonard: I don’t know. Why?
Sheldon: Just making dinner conversation. Go, Team Leonard!

Leonard: Do you want the last dumpling, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Certainly. It’s not like I have to moderate my food intake because I’m planning on eating again very shortly. Mm, mm, mm!

Howard: I wish you were Aquaman. Then I could send you to scoop my mom out of the old lady tank.
Sheldon: Excuse me, I’m thirsty, so I’m going to go to the refrigerator and get myself a refreshing beverage.

Raj: What, suddenly I’m not good enough for you?
Sheldon: Ah, I do so love beverages. Now I think I’ll take my after-dinner walk.

Howard: Yeah, since when do you take walks?
Sheldon: I read a study online that walking after a meal not only aids in digestion, but increases serotonin, and you know me, if there’s one thing I like more than a refreshing beverage, it’s serotonin. Bye-bye.

Howard: Hold on. I’ll walk down with you.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s not necessary. You can go first.

Howard: Or we could go together.
Sheldon: I can’t think of a reason why not.

Howard: Let’s go.
Sheldon: Hold on. Nope, no reason.

Scene: The lobby.
Sheldon: All right, say hello to your mother for me.

Howard: Okay.
Sheldon: What?

Howard: You said you were going for a walk.
Sheldon: I didn’t say outside.

Howard: So what, you’re just gonna walk up and down the stairs?
Sheldon: No, of course not. That would be odd and suspicious behavior.

Howard: Which way are you going?
Sheldon: Which way are you going?

Howard: I parked my scooter down the block.
Sheldon: I’m going the other way. Bye.

Howard: Bye. Actually, I’m this way. Do I smell hot dogs?
Sheldon: No. I mean, I have no idea what you smell.

Howard: I definitely smell raw hot dog.
Sheldon: Perhaps you’re getting a brain tumour.

Howard: All right, have a nice walk.
Sheldon: I shall. Have a nice scoot.

Howard: You might want to stand back. I’m sitting on top of 13 horses here.
Sheldon: Oh. Hello, doggie. Nice doggie. I bet you think you smell hot dogs. Look, a cat!

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny, (knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Long pause, knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Penny opens door. A dishevelled Sheldon is holding up one hot dog.) Here. I had to trade the others for my life.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: Mmm, mmm, mmm. That’s Eye-talian.

Penny: So, um, was Leonard okay with you coming over?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. In fact, he said, I’m fine, I don’t care. And he in no way said it in a manner which would lead one to believe that he was covering up feelings of anguish and betrayal.

Penny: Well, good.
Sheldon: I’m also pleased to report that he’s all cried out over you.

Penny: He’s been crying?
Sheldon: Oh, I believe that was something else I wasn’t supposed to mention.

Penny: Oh, God, I feel terrible.
Sheldon: Do you have a stomach ache, too?

Penny: No. Why, do you?
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Why did you ask if I had one, too?
Sheldon: Just making polite dinner conversation. Your turn.

Penny: All right. So, what’s new in your life?
Sheldon: Well, my new shoes are not made for running.

Penny: Have you been running?
Sheldon: No. It’s just a suspicion I have. Mmm, mmm, mmm.

Penny: I’m so glad you like it.
Sheldon: I do. Leonard never cooks for me.

Penny: Well, maybe that’s ’cause Leonard can’t cook.
Sheldon: You can’t cook and you made me this.

Penny: Whatever. Ooh, I’m gonna get the cheesecake out of the fridge.
Sheldon: Oh, Lord, I’m in Jewish hell.

Leonard: Hey, where you been?
Sheldon: I told you, walking.

Leonard: For an hour and a half?
Sheldon: I got lost.

Leonard: How could you get lost? Your phone has GPS.
Sheldon: Satellites are down. Solar flares.

Raj: There are no solar flares right now.
Sheldon: Yes, there are.

Raj: Dude, I’m an astrophysicist. If there were solar flares, I’d be all up in it.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I misspoke. What I meant to say was my battery died.

Scene: Leonard’s bedroom. Leonard is asleep.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (knock, knock, knock) Leonard, (knock, knock, knock) Leonard.

Leonard: Oh, just come in!
Sheldon: Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.

Leonard: What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Maybe this isn’t a good time.

Leonard: Tell me why you woke me up or I swear to God I will kill you.
Sheldon: Do you really think death threats are an appropriate way to begin this conversation? Sometimes your lack of social skills astonishes me.

Leonard: What do you want?
Sheldon: You may want to sit down.

Leonard: I’m in bed!
Sheldon: Point taken. You may want to sit up.

Leonard: Sheldon!
Sheldon: I’ve been seeing Penny behind your back.

Leonard: Okay, when you say seeing Penny, what exactly does that mean?
Sheldon: We had dinner last night. She made me spaghetti with little hot dogs cut up in it. Well, little hot dog. I gave up the other five hot dogs to a real dog. A real, big dog. A hell hound. Tangential to the primary story. How about I circle back to it?

Leonard: Fine. Why did you have dinner with Penny?
Sheldon: I told you, she made spaghetti with little hot dogs. I like spaghetti with little hot dogs.

Leonard: Then why did you have Chinese food with us?
Sheldon: I didn’t want to upset you. Howard made it very clear that my allegiance should be to male comrades before women who sell their bodies for money.

Leonard: Is it possible he said Bros before Hos?
Sheldon: Yes, but I rephrased it to avoid offending the hos.

Leonard: Sheldon, I don’t care if you want to be friends with Penny.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, so the emotional turmoil that’s been keeping me from achieving REM sleep was entirely unjustified?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Well then as my meemaw would say, looks like we butchered a pig, but nobody wanted bacon.

Leonard: I guess not.
Sheldon: And now, as promised, the tangent. Sheldon and the Hell Hound, or How I Lost My Hot Dogs.

Leonard: It’s ten o’clock, where have you been?
Sheldon: We stayed for the California Adventure water show. It was pure Disney magic.

Penny: How was I supposed to know that?
Sheldon: It’s all right. I’ll see it again with you.

Penny: I know, I know.
Sheldon: I can still eat.

Penny: No, you already threw up once. Go put on your PJs and brush your teeth.
Sheldon: Okay, but just don’t fight

Leonard: Aren’t you going to thank Penny for taking you to Disneyland?
Sheldon: Thank you, Penny.

Scene: The university cafeteria.
Sheldon: Hold.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: Explain your sneeze.

Raj: I’m sorry?
Sheldon: Do you have allergies?

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Is there too much pepper on your salad?

Raj: I don’t put pepper on salads.
Sheldon: I’ve heard enough. Sit over there.

Raj: Oh, come on. I don’t want to sit by myself.
Sheldon: That’s what Typhoid Mary said, and clearly, her friends buckled.

Howard: See you, buddy.
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard, I have something for you. Per our roommate agreement, this is your 24-hour notice that I will be having a non-related female spending two nights in our apartment.

Leonard: When you say non-related female, you still mean human, right?
Sheldon: Of course. Pets are banned under the roommate agreement, with the exception of service animals, such as seeing eye dogs and, one day, cybernetically-enhanced helper monkeys.

Howard: Are you planning on kidnapping a woman?
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Howard: Yes, but mixed with genuine concern.
Sheldon: For your information, I’ll be playing host to Dr. Elizabeth Plimpton.

Raj: The cosmological physicist from Princeton?
Sheldon: Yes. And until you acquire a surgical mask, please address your comments to me through a napkin. We’ve been corresponding for years about our mutual interest in gravitational wave signatures of inflatons in the early universe. And now she’s under consideration for a position at our university.

Leonard: Why didn’t you tell me you knew Elizabeth Plimpton? I am a huge fan of hers!
Sheldon: I didn’t realize I was obligated to share my connection with things you’re a fan of, but very well. You enjoy Canadian bacon. I’ve been to Toronto.

Leonard: Okay, fine. Where is she going to sleep?
Sheldon: My room, of course.

Howard: Yeah, um, I have a two-part question.
Sheldon: Go ahead.

Howard: A, are you kidding me? And B, seriously, are you freaking kidding me?
Sheldon: A, I rarely kid. And B, when I do kid, you will know it by my use of the word bazinga.

Howard: So you’re saying the two of you are going to be sleeping in the same bed?
Sheldon: Yes. Bazinga. Leonard?

Leonard: Thank you. Why is a world-renowned scientist staying in our apartment instead of a hotel?
Sheldon: Well, she doesn’t care for hotels. And who can blame her? Windows that don’t open, multi-user linens, keys shaped like credit cards, as if one walks around with unassigned slots in one’s wallet. All right, I believe I have time for one more question. Yes, Raj?

Raj: When can I sit with you again?
Sheldon: When I’ve seen two consecutive negative throat cultures spaced 12 hours apart. You know the drill. All right, if you’ll excuse me, I am off to start a prophylactic course of antibiotics.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, Penny, excellent. I have a question about these maxi pads. Are the wings truly functional or have I fallen victim to marketing hype?

Penny: What? What are you doing with, what?
Sheldon: The stock boy at Walgreens was frustratingly uninformed on the subject.

Penny: Sheldon, what are you doing with maxi pads?
Sheldon: I have a lady friend who will be staying with me for a few days.

Penny: Oh. What?
Sheldon: I want her to feel at home. I also bought scented soaps, pantyhose, Midol, calcium chews and what is apparently a yogurt specifically designed to regulate the female bowel.

Penny: Wait, wait, hold on, back up. You’re having a woman stay with you?
Sheldon: Yes. Why does that seem to flabbergast everybody?

Penny: Oh, no, no, no, no. I’m not flabbergasted. I’m puzzled. Yeah, let’s go with puzzled.
Sheldon: A word of warning. My guest is a noted physicist and the leading expert on quantum cosmology, so please try to avoid wasting her time with female jibber jabber.

Penny: Female jibber jabber?
Sheldon: Shoe sales, hair styles, mud masks, gossip about your friends Brad and Angelina.

Penny: Oh, they’re not my friends.
Sheldon: I’m not surprised, considering the way you talk about them behind their backs.

Leonard: She’s here, she’s here. How do I look? Do I look smart?
Sheldon: Oh, good grief. This isn’t about you. Coming! Now listen, one of the great minds of the 21st century is about to play host to one of the other great minds of the 21st century. So pay attention. Years from now, my biographer might ask you about this event.

Elizabeth: Ah, Dr. Cooper, thank goodness. I completely forgot your address. But then I remembered that I’d written it on my hand. Lucky for me, I didn’t confuse it with what I’d written on my other hand, which are the coordinates for a newly discovered neutron star. ‘Cause if I tried to go there, I’d be crushed by hypergravity. Anyway, hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Elizabeth: Nice to finally meet you in person.
Sheldon: I would imagine it is. This is my friend and roommate, Dr. Leonard Hofstadter.

here, you’re brilliant.
Sheldon: I apologize. He’s only an experimental physicist.

Leonard: Are you hungry, thirsty? Can I offer you anything?
Sheldon: No, she’s my guest. If anyone should offer her anything, it should be me. Elizabeth, can I get you something? Perhaps a feminine hygiene product or a bowel-regulating yogurt?

Elizabeth: Interesting choices. Based on my current needs, I guess I’d pick the yogurt.
Sheldon: Excellent. If the yogurt works, I bought some delightful scented candles.

Elizabeth: I’m so glad you understand.
Sheldon: No, he doesn’t understand. I understand.

Leonard: Well, I understand, too.
Sheldon: You’re just misappropriating my understanding.

Leonard: Oh, (blows a raspberry). I think any university would want you. Except, of course, any university that had already had you. Because they would’ve already wanted you before they, you know, got you.
Sheldon: From the mind that brought you hi-lo. Let me show you to your room.

Leonard: Uh, sleep night. I mean, obviously, good night. I started to say sleep tight, then I changed my mind in the middle. I swear to God, I’m smart.
Sheldon: Get it together, man.

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. 
Sheldon: All right, let me show you some of the features of the room. First, windows. Conventional. Open, closed, open, closed, halfway open, or halfway closed, depending on your philosophical bent. Over here is my comic book collection. Feel free to browse. There’s a box of disposable reading gloves on the night stand.

Elizabeth: Good to know.
Sheldon: In here, you’ll find emergency provisions. An eight-day supply of food and water, a crossbow, season two of Star Trek: The Original Series on a high-density flash drive.

Elizabeth: What if there’s a disaster that destroys all the USB ports?
Sheldon: Then there’s really no reason to live, is there?

Elizabeth: Can I ask a question about your roommate?
Sheldon: He’s an odd duck, isn’t he?

Elizabeth: What’s his relationship status?
Sheldon: Well, there was a misbegotten adventure with a waitress who lives across the hall. It ended as inexplicably as it began. They had very little in common, except for carnal activity. That’s why I acquired these noise-cancelling headphones. If you decide to use them, please clean the ear pieces afterwards with the Wet Wipes you’ll find in the bathroom. They’re in the drawer labelled Wet Wipes.

Elizabeth: Okay.
Sheldon: Good. I’ll leave you to your night time ablutions. I’ve e-mailed you the morning bathroom schedule. You’ll also find a laminated copy in your welcome packet. It’s on the back of the emergency escape route diagram.

Elizabeth: How thoughtful.
Sheldon: Sleep well, my friend.

Elizabeth: You, too.
Sheldon: Oh, let me just get one thing. It’s my backup emergency supply kit. The living room escape route doesn’t pass through here. Now, good night. And if there’s an apocalypse, good luck.

Scene: The living room.
Sheldon: Vocal test. Morning vocal test. Second vocal test. Second morning vocal test.

Leonard: Morning, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Morning.

Elizabeth: Morning, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Morning. I trust you had a pleasant night.

Elizabeth: More than pleasant.
Sheldon: Excuse me, I’m going to relieve myself.

Leonard: Something his mother taught him.
Sheldon: All right, Elizabeth, the bathroom is yours. The seat is down, and has been sanitized for your protection.

Elizabeth: That’s very thoughtful, but I think I’ll finish my coffee first.
Sheldon: Ah, so the yogurt didn’t work. I’ll fire off a critical e-mail to the manufacturer.

Penny: Oh, good, you’re up. Look, my car won’t start. I need a ride to work.
Sheldon: Did you once again ignore your check engine light?

Penny: No, Mr. smarty-pants. I ignored the fill gas tank light.
Sheldon: Leonard, Penny wants to exploit any residual feelings you have for her in order to get a ride to work.

Penny: Good.
Sheldon: Wonderful. Meaningless pleasantries accomplished. Elizabeth, Leonard’s bathroom time is coming up, and believe me, you do not want to follow him.

Leonard: Well, now…
Sheldon: Excuse me. I’m uncomfortable with you recommending that Leonard pursue having intercourse with Dr. Plimpton, who I assure you has better things to do.

Penny: I’m not recommending it. I’m saying it already happened.
Sheldon: That’s preposterous. Tell her, Leonard.

Leonard: Well…
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Come on. It wasn’t my fault.
Sheldon: The implication being that you somehow tripped and fell into her lady parts?

Penny: Oh, no, no, it’s okay. You might slip on a banana peel and get me pregnant.
Sheldon: I must say, I’m shocked by this betrayal.

Leonard: I didn’t betray Penny.
Sheldon: Not Penny, me!

Leonard: How am I betraying you?
Sheldon: Elizabeth’s my friend, and you’re playing with her!

Raj: It is if you love her and give her a name.
Sheldon: Dr. Plimpton, I’d like you to meet my colleagues, Dr. Rajesh Koothrappali

Raj: Hi.
Sheldon: And not-a-doctor Howard Wolowitz.

Elizabeth: Thank you.
Sheldon: And of course, you’ve already introduced yourself to Dr. Hofstadter.

Leonard (voice off): It’s just two degrees, Sheldon. I just want to turn up the thermostat two degrees!
Sheldon: (voice off): Let me point out that two degrees can be the difference between water and steam.

Leonard (voice off): Yes, if we lived in a teakettle.
Sheldon: (voice off): This is the temperature you agreed to in the roommate agreement.

Leonard (voice off): Aw, screw the roommate agreement!
Sheldon: (voice off): No, you don’t screw the roommate agreement. The roommate agreement screws you.

Leonard (voice off): You know what, go to Hell and set their thermostat.
Sheldon: (voice off): I don’t have to go to Hell. At 73 degrees, I’m there already!

 
Sheldon: Oh, Ubuntu, you are my favourite Linux-based operating system.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello. Why do I smell methacrylate?

Leonard: Oh, uh, clear nail polish. I had a mani-pedi. Men can get those. Anyway, I may owe you an apology.
Sheldon: There’s doubt?

Leonard: I did agree to the thermostat setting, and I shouldn’t have tried to change it.
Sheldon: That’s not an apology, simply an acknowledgement that I was right.

Leonard: Okay, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: There you go.

Leonard: So, we’re good?
Sheldon: Good what?

Leonard: Never mind. Okay if I watch some TV?
Sheldon: Go ahead.

Leonard: Okay, we’ve got power to the laser.
Sheldon: I should’ve brought an umbrella.

Leonard: What for? It’s not going to rain.
Sheldon: I know that, but with skin as fair as mine, moon burn is a real possibility.

Howard: That’s a bazinga, right?
Sheldon: One of my best, don’t you think?

Raj: It’s not like that, I’m watching someone’s TV. The Good Wife is on. I tell you, this is my new Grey’s Anatomy.
Sheldon: Leonard, Leonard. What is that? What is that?

Leonard: Relax, it’s just a dirty sock.
Sheldon: How on earth can you say dirty sock and relax in the same sentence?

Leonard: Sheldon, the world is filled with dirty discarded socks.
Sheldon: Not my world.

Leonard: Hey, you know who’d really dig seeing this experiment? Penny.
Sheldon: I wasn’t aware that lunar ranging was her thing. Although, I suppose the retro-reflector left on the moon by Neil Armstrong does qualify as a shiny object.

Leonard: She didn’t dump me. We were just in different places in the relationship.
Sheldon: I fail to see how a relationship can have the qualities of a geographic location.

Howard: Happy now? I’m moving the dirty sock.
Sheldon: Thank you. Raj, keep an eye out for the other one.

Zack: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Zack: Whoa! Is that the laser? It’s bitchin’.
Sheldon: Yes. In 1917, when Albert Einstein established the theoretic foundation for the laser in his paper Zur Quantentheorie der Strahlung, his fondest hope was that the resultant device be bitchin’.

Zack: The moon.
Sheldon: See, now this is a man for Penny.

Leonard: Uh, that’s a great question, Zack.
Sheldon: No, it’s not.

Penny: Sheldon! Play nice.
Sheldon: Well it’s not a great question. How could somebody possibly think we’re going to blow up the moon? That’s a great question.

Howard: Preparing to fire laser at the moon.
Sheldon: Make it so.

Zack: What species is that?
Sheldon: I was wrong. Penny can do better.

Penny: No, just keep walking.
Sheldon: He must be very skilled at coitus.

Howard: Tons. I’ve had, like, eight dates in the last month. And twelve if you count the ones who showed up and left.
Sheldon: I can’t bring the nitrogen tank down.

Leonard: Why not?
Sheldon: All right, let me restate that. It’s very heavy, and I don’t want to.

Leonard: I’ll help you.
Sheldon: Thank you. Lift with your knees, not your back. Good night.

Leonard: Why? I mean, okay.
Sheldon: What’s going on?

Penny: Put on your noise-cancelling headphones, ’cause it’s gonna get loud.
Sheldon: Oh! Not this again.

Scene: The next morning.
Sheldon: In what universe is this low-pulp? Good morning, Penny.

Penny: What, do you have eyes in the back of your head?
Sheldon: When one gets beaten up every other day in school, one of necessity develops a keen sense of hearing. Incidentally, one can get beaten up in school simply by referring to oneself as one. I’m making English muffins. Would you like an English muffin?

Penny: Oh, thanks, I’m not hungry.
Sheldon: FYI, my noise-cancelling headphones proved ineffective last night.

Penny: Yeah, sorry about that.
Sheldon: As a native Texan, I must say I’ve never heard the phrase yee-haw used in quite that context.

Penny: Oh, God.
Sheldon: Oh, God. That I’ve heard on multiple occasions. In what universe is that lightly toasted? This has to be the worst day of my life. Good morning, Leonard.

Leonard: How many times have I asked you not to do that?
Sheldon: Counting this instance? 317.

Leonard: Where’s Penny?
Sheldon: She returned to her apartment. I presume to shower and vomit. Not necessarily in that order.

Leonard: I wonder why she didn’t say good-bye.
Sheldon: Are you expecting me to offer an explanation of human behaviour?

Leonard: I know. I just thought as an outsider, you might be able to provide a fresh perspective.
Sheldon: I have no difficulty believing you’re not butter.

Raj: Really? Us gonna tell him?
Sheldon: Who’s going to tell whom about what?

Raj: Hi.
Sheldon: Your surprise confuses me. I live here.

Howard: Right. So, listen, what are you doing tomorrow afternoon?
Sheldon: Be more specific.

Howard: Four thirty.
Sheldon: That’s not afternoon. That’s preevning.

Howard: What?
Sheldon: It’s a time of day I invented. It better defines the ambiguous period between afternoon and evening. Preevning. I’m fairly certain it will catch on as it fills a desperate need.

Raj: Right, okay. What are you doing tomorrow preevning?
Sheldon: Well, tomorrow’s Saturday. Saturday night is laundry night, so I’ll be spending the preevning pre-sorting and pre-soaking.

Howard: Okay, what if I were to tell you, tomorrow, at 4:30 you could meet a woman who has been scientifically chosen to be your perfect mate?
Sheldon: I would snort in derision and throw my arms in the air, exhausted by your constant tomfoolery.

Raj: But it’s true. But we-we put all your vital information into this dating site, answered all their questions just like you would, and they found a match for you. Her name is Amy Farrah Fowler.
Sheldon: Please. Even assuming you could answer any question the way I would, the algorithms used by matchmaking sites are complete hokum.

Howard: Well, come on, where’s your scientific curiosity?
Sheldon: Well, most of it is being applied to unravelling the secrets of the universe while the rest of it’s wondering why I’m having this conversation with you.

Raj: Okay, how about this. Even Spock had a date once every seven years.
Sheldon: He didn’t date. It was pon farr. His blood boiled with mating lust.

Howard: Okay, well, why don’t you start with a cup of coffee, and you can pon farr Amy Farrah Fowler later.
Sheldon: I don’t drink coffee.

Howard: All right, you can have a hot chocolate.
Sheldon: As I will not be engaging in this nonsense, my choice of beverage is moot. But for the record, I only drink hot chocolate in months with an R in them.

Howard: Why?
Sheldon: What’s life without whimsy?

Raj: Sheldon, I’ve hidden the dirty sock from the roof somewhere in your apartment. Unless you are willing to come with us to meet this girl, it will remain there forever.
Sheldon: You’re bluffing.

Raj: Are you willing to risk it?
Sheldon: Curse you.

Scene: A coffee shop.
Sheldon: In a few minutes, when I gloat over the failure of this enterprise, how would you prefer I do it? The standard I told you so? The classic neener-neener? Or just my normal look of haughty derision?

Raj: You don’t know we’re wrong yet.
Sheldon: Haughty derision it is.

Amy: Excuse me. I’m Amy Farrah Fowler. You’re Sheldon Cooper.
Sheldon: Hello, Amy Farrah Fowler. I’m sorry to inform you that you have been taken in by unsupportable mathematics designed to prey on the gullible and the lonely. Additionally, I’m being blackmailed with a hidden dirty sock.

Amy: If that was slang, I’m unfamiliar with it. If it was literal, I share your aversion to soiled hosiery. In any case, I’m here because my mother and I have agreed that I will date at least once a year.
Sheldon: Interesting. My mother and I have the same agreement about church.

Amy: I don’t object to the concept of a deity, but I’m baffled by the notion of one that takes attendance.
Sheldon: Well, then you might want to avoid East Texas.

Amy: Noted. Now, before this goes any further, you should know that all forms of physical contact up to and including coitus are off the table.
Sheldon: May I buy you a beverage?

Raj: And it only took 28 minutes.
Sheldon: Impressive, but we must be cautious.

Howard: Why?
Sheldon: Today, it’s a Chinese food retrieval robot. Tomorrow, it travels back in time and tries to kill Sarah Connor.

Leonard: I don’t think that’s going to happen, Sheldon.
Sheldon: No one ever does. That’s why it happens.

Howard: Just wait.
Sheldon: You realize, Penny, that the technology that went into this arm will one day make unskilled food servers such as yourself obsolete.

Penny: Really? They’re going to make a robot that spits on your hamburger?
Sheldon: I thought you broke up with her. Why is she here?

Penny: Oh ha-ha, oh. That’s amazing.
Sheldon: I wouldn’t say amazing. At best, it’s a modest leap forward from the basic technology that gave us Country Bear Jamboree.

Howard: Hey, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes? (Howard types. The hand puts up two fingers to Sheldon.) Peace?

Penny: Sheldon has a girlfriend?
Sheldon: She’s not my girlfriend.

Leonard: Four months.
Sheldon: She’s not my girlfriend.

Penny: Are you telling me, for the past four months I have been asking you what’s new and you never thought to go with Sheldon has a girlfriend?
Sheldon: She’s not my girlfriend.

Penny (squeals): Shamy. I am so digging the Shamy.
Sheldon: All right, everyone pay attention. Yes, I have a friend named Amy Farrah Fowler. Yes, she is female. Yes, we communicate on a daily basis, but no, she is not my girlfriend.

Penny: Okay, well, what do you communicate about?
Sheldon: Well, my work in physics, her work in neurobiology, and most recently, the possibility of our having a child together.

Leonard: Wait a minute– a child? You never see this girl. You just e-mail and text and Twitter. Now you’re considering having a baby?
Sheldon: Amy pointed out that between the two of us, our genetic material has the potential of producing the first in a line of intellectually superior, benign overlords to guide humanity to a brighter tomorrow.

Penny: Okay, I have a question.
Sheldon: Yes, Penny.

Penny: You don’t even like people touching you. How are you going to have sex?
Sheldon: Why on Earth would we have sex?

Penny: Oh, honey, did your mom not have the talk with you? You know, when your private parts started growing?
Sheldon: I’m quite aware of the way humans usually reproduce, which is messy, unsanitary, and based on living next to you for three years, involves loud and unnecessary appeals to a deity.

Penny: Oh, God.
Sheldon: Yes, exactly. Consequently, if Amy and I choose to bring new life into this world, it will be accomplished clinically, with fertility experts in a lab with petri dishes. Which reminds me, you have broad hips and a certain corn-fed vigour. Is your womb available for rental?

Penny: Look, Sheldon, before you race off to the fertility clinic, you might want to think about, uh gee, I don’t know, maybe actually spending some time with her.
Sheldon: You mean dating?

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: I can’t date Amy.

Penny: Why not?
Sheldon: She’s not my girlfriend.

Penny: Okay, look, don’t think of it as dating a girlfriend. Think of it as, uh, getting to know the future mother of your child.
Sheldon: Oh. I hadn’t considered that. I suppose she will have to have access to our progeny. And you don’t think I can achieve the required intimacy via text messaging?

Penny: Probably not.
Sheldon: Huh. It would appear as if the phone companies have been lying to me.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: You do realize I stand on the other side of the door waiting for you to finish knocking three times.
Sheldon: I know. I can see the shadow of your feet under the door.

Penny: Yeah, my point is it’s a waste of time.
Sheldon: If you’re looking for an example of a waste of time, I would refer you to the conversation we’re having right now.

Penny: What do you want?
Sheldon: I’ve decided to take your advice and have arranged to go on a date with Amy Farrah Fowler.

Penny: Oh, that’s great. Have fun.
Sheldon: Wait. You have to drive me.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: You know I don’t drive.

Penny: Well, go ask Leonard.
Sheldon: I did. He said, and I quote, ask Penny, it was her cockamamie idea.

Penny: Leonard said cockamamie?
Sheldon: Actually, I’m paraphrasing. Having been raised in a Christian household, I’m uncomfortable with the language he used. And to be honest, I’m not entirely comfortable with cockamamie.

Penny: Okay, fine. When’s the date?
Sheldon: Now.

Penny: Now?
Sheldon: Hurry. We’re going to be late.

Penny: Sheldon, did it ever occur to you that I might have other plans?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Do you have other plans?

Penny: Well, no, not per se, but…
Sheldon: So this conversation is as pointless as your door-knocking soliloquy?

Scene: Penny’s car.
Sheldon: Thank you for driving me.

Penny: You’re welcome.
Sheldon: I wish you weren’t wearing flip-flops. It’s dangerous to drive in flip-flops.

Penny: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Sorry. I just don’t want to be yet another flip-flop fatality.

Penny: Can I ask you a question?
Sheldon: Given your community college education, I encourage you to ask me as many as possible.

Penny: Yeah. Well, my question is, and I’m pretty sure I know the answer, is this your first date?
Sheldon: That depends. Does square-dancing with my sister at a Teens for Jesus Fourth of July Hoedown count as a date?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Then, this is my first date.

Penny: Okay. Well, then, there’s a couple of things you should probably know.
Sheldon: I have a master’s degree and two doctorates. The things I should know, I do know.

Penny: My point is, I know more about dating than you, and if you were as smart as you think you are, you would listen to me.
Sheldon: If you know so much, how come I have a date tonight and you have nothing better to do than drive me to it?

Amy: But the light indicates…
Sheldon: Don’t bother. I’ve wasted many an hour tilting at that particular windmill.

Penny: Guys, how ’bout some music?
Sheldon: Oh, no, I wouldn’t care for that. Amy?

Penny: Okay. Uncomfortable silence it is. Hey, Sheldon, have you told Amy what it was like for you growing up in Texas?
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Well, why don’t you tell her?
Sheldon: All right. It was hell.

Penny: I myself grew up in Nebraska. Small town outside of Omaha. You know, nice place, mostly family farms, a few meth labs.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, how is this better than uncomfortable silence?

Penny: I don’t know. I was just trying something.
Sheldon: Muggles.

Penny: Hey, here’s another possible topic of conversation. This is a big night for Sheldon. Right, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Big night? The winter solstice is a big night. It’s over 14 hours in Southern California.

Amy: That’s an amusing factoid.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: Is this true?
Sheldon: Apparently, a semi-incestuous Teens for Jesus Fourth of July Hoedown didn’t count.

 
Sheldon: Your characterization of approximately 171 different men as a few.

Penny: What? Where did you get 171 men?
Sheldon: Simple extrapolation. In the three years that I’ve known you, you were single for two. During that time, I saw 17 different suitors. If we work backwards, correcting for observation bias and postulate an initial dating age of 15…

Penny: Whoa, wait, wait, wait. I did not start dating at 15.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. 16?

Penny: 14.
Sheldon: My mistake. Now, assuming the left side of a bell curve peaking around the present, that would bring the total up to 193 men. Plus or minus eight men.

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Although that number would be fairly easy to calculate.

Penny: Oh.
Sheldon: Based on the number of awkward encounters I’ve had with strange men leaving her apartment in the morning, plus the number of times she’s returned home wearing the same clothes she wore the night before…

Penny: Okay, Sheldon, I think you’ve made your point.
Sheldon: So we multiply 193, minus 21 men before the loss of virginity, so 172 times 0.18 gives us 30.96 sexual partners. Let’s round that up to 31.

Penny: No! No! No. Let’s just all finish our dinners, okay?
Sheldon: This is an interesting topic. How many sexual encounters have you had?

Amy: Does volunteering for a scientific experiment in which orgasm was achieved by electronically stimulating the pleasure centres of the brain count?
Sheldon: I should think so.

Scene: The stairwell. 
Sheldon: You were right. This was a very productive evening. I saw a whole new side of Amy Farrah Fowler tonight.

Penny: I did not have sex with 31 guys.
Sheldon: I’ll be happy to check the math, but numbers don’t lie, Penny. In any event, now that Amy and I have spent quality time together, I feel much more confident proceeding to the next stage of our relationship.

Penny: And that is?
Sheldon: Using in vitro fertilization and a surrogate uterus to gift humanity with our progeny.

Penny: You’re still on that?
Sheldon: In these uncertain times, doesn’t humanity deserve a gift?

Penny: Okay, you know what? I’m gonna come at this in a whole new way. Sheldon, if you try to make a baby with Amy in a petri dish, I’m gonna tell your mother on you.
Sheldon: That’s no threat. My mother’s always wanted a grandchild.

Penny: Really? Your deeply religious born-again Christian mother wants a test-tube grandbaby born out of wedlock?
Sheldon: Curses.

Penny: If I’d thought of that in the first place, I could’ve saved myself this whole night.
Sheldon: Well, it’s not that late. You could still go out and look for number 32. Good night.

Leonard (on phone): Hey, Howard, what’s up?
Sheldon: I’ve decided not to procreate.

Leonard: Whatcha doin’ there? Working on a new plan to catch the roadrunner?
Sheldon: The humorous implication being that I am Wile E. Coyote?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: And this is a schematic for a bird-trapping device that will ultimately backfire and cause me physical injury?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: What I’m doing here is trying to determine when I’m going to die.

Leonard: A lot of people are working on that research. So what is all this?
Sheldon: My family history factoring in longevity, propensity for disease, et cetera.

Leonard: Interesting. Cause of death for Uncle Carl was KBB. What’s KBB?
Sheldon: Killed by badger.

Leonard: How’s that?
Sheldon: It was Thanksgiving. Uncle Carl said, I think there’s a badger living in our chimney. Hand me that flashlight. Those were the last words he ever spoke to us.

Leonard: I don’t think you need to worry about death by badgers being hereditary.
Sheldon: Not true. The fight or flight instinct is coded genetically. Instead of fleeing, he chose to fight barehanded against a brawny member of the weasel family. Who’s to say that I don’t share that flawed DNA?

Leonard: You can always get a badger and find out.
Sheldon: But seriously, even if I disregard the Uncle Carl factor, at best I have 60 years left.

Leonard: That long, huh?
Sheldon: 60 only takes me to here. I need to get to here.

Leonard: What’s there?
Sheldon: The earliest estimate of the singularity, when man will be able to transfer his consciousness into machines and achieve immortality.

Leonard: So, you’re upset about missing out on becoming some sort of freakish self-aware robot?
Sheldon: By this much.

Leonard: Tough break. You want eggs?
Sheldon: You don’t get it, Leonard. I’m going to miss so much, the unified field theory,  cold fusion, the dogapus.

Leonard: What’s a dogapus?
Sheldon: A hybrid dog and octopus. Man’s underwater best friend.

Leonard: Is somebody working on that?
Sheldon: I was going to. I planned on giving it to myself on my 300th birthday.

Leonard: Wait a minute. You hate dogs.
Sheldon: A dogapus can play fetch with eight balls. No one can hate that.

Leonard: Sheldon, six bucks.
Sheldon: No, thank you. I’m not eating pizza tonight.

Penny: But it’s Thursday. Thursday’s pizza night.
Sheldon: Not for me. Thursday is now Cruciferous Vegetable Night. Tonight’s selection, brussels sprouts.

Howard: Really? You’re changing the Sheldonian calendar?
Sheldon: It’s a small price to pay.

Penny: Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry.
Sheldon: In order to live long enough to fuse my consciousness with cybernetics, I need to change my diet.

Penny: Wait. Cybernetics is robot stuff, right?
Sheldon: Correct.

Penny: So you want to turn yourself into some sort of robot?
Sheldon: Essentially, yes.

Penny: Okay, here’s my question. Didn’t you already do that?
Sheldon: Flattering, but sadly, no. I’m also planning to begin an exercise regimen designed to strengthen my cardiovascular system. AKA jogging.

Penny: Wait. Honey,have you ever run before?
Sheldon: Certainly. I’ve run from bullies, dogs, angry chickens, and one particularly persistent P.E. teacher determined to bend me over and give me a scoliosis test.

Howard (after Raj whispers to him): You’re right, Penny jogs. Maybe you guys can run together.
Sheldon: That’s an excellent idea. Yeah, if we chat, it will create the illusion of time going faster.

Leonard: What the hell? What’s the matter?
Sheldon: I have pain radiating from my navel to my lower right abdomen. I’m nauseated and feverish. I believe I may have cholera.

Leonard: There’s no cholera in Pasadena. Just like last summer, when there was no malaria in Pasadena.
Sheldon: Well, if it’s not cholera, then based on a quick Internet search, the other explanations in decreasing order of likelihood are Hirschsprung’s Disease, botulism, a 30-foot tapeworm or accidental ingestion of chrysanthemum blossoms.

Leonard: When would you have accidentally eaten chrysanthemum blossoms?
Sheldon: It’s part of an unlikely scenario that involves sleepwalking and a 24-hour flower mart with a less-than-vigilant proprietor. Oh, Lord, my belly!

Leonard: Have you had your appendix out?
Sheldon: I haven’t. I’ve been meaning to, but who has the time?

Leonard: Let’s get you to the hospital.
Sheldon: So this is how it ends, with cruel irony. Just as I make the commitment to preserving my body, I am betrayed by my appendix, a vestigial organ. Do you know the original purpose of the appendix, Leonard?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: I do. And yet I’m doomed while you live on.

Leonard: Funny how things work out, isn’t it?
Sheldon: Oh, Lord, I think it’s about to burst! (Loud sound of farting) On the other hand, it might have been the Brussels sprouts.

Leonard: Good night.
Sheldon: Good night. Appendicitis. What a nervous Nelly.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: Coming, coming. Hey, nice knees.
Sheldon: Thank you. They’re my mother’s.

Penny: Oh. And the Flash shirt is what? Because you’re gonna run really fast?
Sheldon: No, the Flash shirt is because it’s Friday, but it’s nice when things work out. Where’s your heart rate monitor?

Penny: I don’t have one.
Sheldon: What about your pedometer?

Penny: Don’t have one.
Sheldon: Do you have telematics in your shoes connected to an iPod?

Penny: Uh, no.
Sheldon: What do you do, you just go out there and gambol about like a bunny?

Penny: No. I just run till I’m hungry, then I stop for a bear claw.
Sheldon: Why are you doing that?

Penny: It’s good to stretch your muscles before you run.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: All right, let’s start with a toe touch. Okay, you do it.
Sheldon: I am doing it.

Penny: Oh. Wow. Good job. Okay, um, can you do this?
Sheldon: We’ll never know.

Penny: Okay, let’s just warm up on the run.
Sheldon: Okay.

Penny: Okay, let’s go.
Sheldon: Yeah, I’ve been reading up on biomechanics. I think you’ll be surprised at my… Wah! Oh!

Penny (squealing): Oh, my God, are you okay?
Sheldon: I think so.

Penny: Oh, let me help you up.
Sheldon: Thank you. (Loud sound of farting)

Penny: Oh, Sheldon!
Sheldon: If it makes you feel any better, Thursday is no longer Cruciferous Vegetable Night.

Leonard: Sheldon, are you gonna join us?
Sheldon: Coming! (From the bedroom area, a wheeled device consisting of a base, a tee-shirt on a coat hanger, and a computer monitor with Sheldon’s face, appears). Greetings, friends.

Leonard: Sheldon, this is ridiculous.
Sheldon: I’m behind you. Please look at me when you’re talking to me.

Leonard: I am looking at you.
Sheldon: No, you’re not. Pay no attention to that man in the bed.

Leonard: You cannot exist as a virtual presence. Not here and certainly not at work. Oh, good God.
Sheldon: At my age, do you know how I’m statistically most likely to die?

Leonard: At the hands of your roommate?
Sheldon: An accident.

Leonard: That’s how I’m going to make it look.
Sheldon: Until I can transfer my intellect to a more durable container, my body will remain safely ensconced in my bed.

Leonard: Fine, but don’t expect my help.
Sheldon: You have to help, it’s in the roommate agreement.

Leonard: No, it’s not.
Sheldon: Section 74.C. The various obligations and duties of the parties in the event one of them becomes a robot.

Scene: The hallway. Sheldon exits carrying the Apple 2.
Sheldon: I’m coming, Woz, I’m coming. (Trips on stairs.) Ow! Aw.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: All right, I’m ready for my next question.

Amy: In a world where rhinoceroses are domesticated pets, who wins the Second World War?
Sheldon: Uganda.

Amy: Defend.
Sheldon: Kenya rises to power on the export of rhinoceroses. A Central African power block is formed, colonizing North Africa and Europe. When war breaks out, no one can afford the luxury of a rhino. Kenya withers, Uganda triumphs.

Amy: Correct. My turn.
Sheldon: In a world where a piano is a weapon, not a musical instrument, on what does Scott Joplin play The Maple Leaf Rag?

Amy: Tuned bayonets.
Sheldon: Defend.

Amy: Isn’t it obvious?
Sheldon: You’re right. My apologies.

Leonard: What the hell are you guys playing?
Sheldon: It’s a game we invented. It’s called Counterfactuals.

Amy: We postulate an alternate world that differs from ours in one key aspect and then pose questions to each other.
Sheldon: It’s fun for ages eight to eighty. Join us.

Leonard: All right. I like a good brainteaser. Give it a whirl.
Sheldon: You’re in luck, this is an easy one. In a world where mankind is ruled by a giant intelligent beaver, what food is no longer consumed?

Leonard: Uh, a BLT where the B stands for beaver? I don’t know.
Sheldon: Leonard, be serious. We’re playing a game here.

Leonard: I can figure this out, let’s see. Um, well, beavers eat tree bark. The only tree bark I know that humans consume is cinnamon. So, I’ll say cinnamon.
Sheldon: Incorrect. Obviously, the answer is cheese Danish.

Amy: Is he always like this when he loses?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. You should’ve been here for the great Jenga tantrum of 2008.

Raj: If I don’t have to boom-boom.
Sheldon: Greetings. You all remember Amy Farrah Fowler.

Amy: Hello.
Sheldon: Sorry we’re late.

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: I believe she’s experiencing her menses.

Amy: Shamy?
Sheldon: A juvenile amalgamation of our names. Sheldon and Amy,  Shamy.

Amy: Like everybody else’s. Subject to entropy, decay and eventual death. Thank you for asking. Why is she not taking our order?
Sheldon: I should’ve warned you, one has to navigate a labyrinth of social nonsense before one can be fed here.

Amy: Really? I assumed an establishment called the Cheesecake Factory would function more efficiently.
Sheldon: It’s how they lure you in. I believe it’s called bait and switch.

Amy: I’m curious as to why we’re not eating alone.
Sheldon: They can’t function without me. I’m the social glue that holds this little group together. You’re welcome.

Leonard: Listen, can I talk to you about your girlfriend?
Sheldon: She’s not my girlfriend. She’s a girl and she’s my friend, but there’s no touching or unsanitary exchange of saliva.

Leonard: Got it.
Sheldon: Although, for the record, on one occasion, she licked her thumb to remove raspberry jelly from the corner of my mouth. It’s an action we both regret to this day.

Leonard: Uh-huh. Anyway, I’m not sure she’s the best fit for our little, how should we call it, rebel alliance.
Sheldon: Oh, I never identified with the rebel alliance. Despite their tendency to build Death Stars, I’ve always been more of an empire man.

Leonard: Yeah, not my point.
Sheldon: I know what your point is. You’re intimidated by Amy’s intellect. To that I say, buck up.

Leonard: Okay, let me just get right to it. Amy is judgmental, sanctimonious and frankly just obnoxious.
Sheldon: So?

Leonard: So we already have you for all that.
Sheldon: Are you suggesting I terminate my relationship with Amy?

Leonard: No, no, of course not. Just have your relationship someplace else.
Sheldon: May I point out that for eight long months, I suffered in silence as your female companion filled our apartment with her off-key country music caterwauling, the unappetizing spectacle of her grinding a pumice stone against her calloused feet in our living room, and night after night of uninformative TV documentaries about the Jersey Shore.

Leonard: Suffered in silence?
Sheldon: Yes. And I’d thank you to do the same.

Howard: More like Yoko and Yoko.
Sheldon: Greetings.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: I brought Amy here to show her some of the work I’m doing.

Amy: It’s very impressive, for theoretical work.
Sheldon: Do I detect a hint of condescension?

Leonard and Howard together: Oooh!
Sheldon: Are you suggesting the work of a neurobiologist like Babinski could ever rise to the significance of a physicist like Clarke-Maxwell or Dirac?

Amy: I’m stating it outright. Babinski eats Dirac for breakfast and defecates Clarke-Maxwell.
Sheldon: You take that back.

Leonard: I’m sorry, I’m-I’m still trying to work on the defecating Clark Maxwell, so…
Sheldon: Excuse me, but a grand unified theory, insofar as it explains everything, will ipso facto explain neurobiology.

Amy: Yes, but if I’m successful, I will be able to map and reproduce your thought processes in deriving a grand unified theory, and therefore, subsume your conclusions under my paradigm.
Sheldon: That’s the rankest psychologism, and was conclusively revealed as hogwash by Gottlob Frege in the 1890s!

Amy: We appear to have reached an impasse.
Sheldon: I agree. I move our relationship terminate immediately.

Amy: Seconded.
Sheldon: There being no objections…

All: No, uh-uh.
Sheldon: The motion carries. Good day, Amy Farrah Fowler.

Howard: Women, huh? Can’t live with them, can’t successfully refute their hypotheses.
Sheldon: Amen to that.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: I hear you broke up with Amy.
Sheldon: A breakup would imply she was my girlfriend. She was a girl who was my friend who is now a girl who is not my friend.

Penny: Wow. That’s like the worst country song ever. So, how are you doing?
Sheldon: Regarding what?

Penny: Amy.
Sheldon: I don’t follow.

Penny: Well, breakups, or whatever the hell this is, can be tough.
Sheldon: Penny, I assure you, I’m fine. My relationship with Amy was purely intellectual. There were no emotional bonds, the severing of which would cause me any discomfort. The relationship simply outlived its utility, and I’m continuing on with my life as before.

Penny: Okay. Good.
Sheldon: Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m off to buy a pussycat.

Raj: Don’t try to change me, dude. I am what I am.
Sheldon: Oh, gentlemen.

Howard: Hey. Aren’t you going to introduce us to your little friend?
Sheldon: My apologies. Raj, Howard, I’d like you to meet Dr. Robert Oppenheimer.

Raj: Hi.
Sheldon: Now, if you’ll excuse me, the father of the atomic bomb wants a saucer of milk.

Leonard: Hey. (Turns to see Sheldon now has five cats) Oh, no.
Sheldon: Robert Oppenheimer was lonely.

Leonard: So you decided to get the whole Manhattan Project?
Sheldon: Yes. This is Enrico Fermi, Richard Feynman, Edward Teller, Otto Frisch, and Zazzles.

Leonard: Zazzles?
Sheldon: I was going to name him Herman von Helmholtz, but he’s so zazzy.

Leonard: Okay, we need to talk.
Sheldon: About what?

Leonard: Cats, Sheldon. You’re clearly upset about Amy being gone, and you’re trying to replace her with a bunch of cats.
Sheldon: Clowder.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: A group of cats is a clowder. Or a glaring.

Leonard: Okay, yeah, fine.
Sheldon: It’s the kind of thing you ought to know now that we have one.

Leonard: Terrific. My-my point is you need to face up to what you’re feeling with this breakup.
Sheldon: It wasn’t a breakup. A breakup would imply that Amy was my girlfriend.

Leonard: Okay, I got it, I got it, she’s not your girlfriend. Now listen to me. I know about loneliness. I know about trying to replace someone with other stuff. When I broke up with Penny, I got back into my cello, I built a bunch of model rockets, I got those weightlifting gloves and that five-pound dumbbell.
Sheldon: You didn’t break up, she dumped you.

Leonard: She didn’t dump me. It was mutual!
Sheldon: I was there. She dumped you.

Leonard: Okay, fine. Live with cats. Be like my Aunt Nancy. She had dozens of them. And do you know what happened after she died? They ate her.
Sheldon: You don’t have to sell me on cats, Leonard. I’m already a fan. All right, fellas, who’s in the mood for Fancy Feast? Well, that’s not fancy at all.

Leonard: Hold on to that thought. (Knocks on Sheldon’s bedroom door)
Sheldon: Come in. (They enter. The room is full of cats.)

Leonard: Surprise.
Sheldon: Mom, what an unexpected pleasure.

Mrs Cooper: My, my, that’s a powerful smell.
Sheldon: I’d like you to meet Oppenheimer, Frisch, Panofsky, Feynman, Weisskopf…

Mrs Cooper: Yeah, I get it. You got a lot of cats and you gave ’em cute Jewish names.
Sheldon: What are you doing here?

Mrs Cooper: Leonard called, and he said that you were pining for a young lady.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s preposterous. I’m not pining over anyone.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, lambchop, we can quibble what to call it, but I think we can both agree it’s creepy.
Sheldon: I do not agree. Cats make wonderful companions. They don’t argue or question my intellectual authority, and this little guy here, I think you’ll find to be quite zazzy.

Mrs Cooper: Shelly! Dinner’s ready!
Sheldon: Coming!

Mrs Cooper: No cats!
Sheldon: Aw.(Enters to find Amy) What is she doing here?

Amy: Your mother thinks you might be losing your mind over me. As a neurobiologist, I was curious.
Sheldon: Well, rest assured, I am in full possession of my faculties.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, God bless you, dear. Sheldon, sit down. Let’s talk.
Sheldon: All right, but you’re not fooling me. Whenever you say we have to talk, it means you want me to listen.

Mrs Cooper: Then stop talking.
Sheldon: Yes, ma’am.

Mrs Cooper: Now, the reason I called Amy over was to find out what type of person she is. And after chatting a bit, I have to say that while she is a perfectly unique young woman, you two are definitely not suited for each other.
Sheldon: That’s a peculiar conclusion. By any standard, Amy is more similar to me than anyone I’ve ever met.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, I’m sorry, Shelly, I can’t see it.
Sheldon: Well, whether you see it or not is irrelevant. I can’t see subatomic particles, but nevertheless, they’re there.

Amy: Excellent point.
Sheldon: A physics point.

Mrs Cooper: Well, putting aside the pig Latin, it’s a good thing that you two decided to end the relationship so I didn’t have to end it for you.
Sheldon: Amy, after consideration, I believe we may have acted rashly. I propose we resume our relationship and attempt to resolve our differences.

Amy: I’ll agree to that only if you’ll stipulate that 80% of our difficulties were caused by you.
Sheldon: I’ll go as high as 40.

Amy: Sixty-five.
Sheldon: Done. You understand that moving forward, we deal with the fact that my mother does not approve of you?

Amy: I do. I find being cast in the role of bad girl oddly titillating.
Sheldon: Would you like to see my cats?

Amy: I would. I love cats. They’re the epitome of indifference.
Sheldon: Ah, then you may find Zazzles a little cloying.

Scene: Outside. Sheldon is sitting at a table with a sign reading “Cats $20”)
Sheldon: Thank you, Amy. Here’s your cat. And here’s your $20.

Amy: Next!
Sheldon: Thank you, Amy. Here’s your cat. And here’s your $20.

Raj: I’m telling you, if xenon emits ultraviolet light, then those dark matter discoveries must be wrong.
Sheldon: Yes, well, if we lived in a world where slow-moving xenon produced light, then you’d be correct. Also, pigs would fly, my derriere would produce cotton candy, and The Phantom Menace would be a timeless classic.

Raj: Oh, you’re so arrogant. If you were a superhero, your name would be Captain Arrogant. And you know what your superpower would be? Arrogance.
Sheldon: You’re wrong again. If my superpower were arrogance, my name would be Dr. Arroganto.

Raj: Has it occurred to you you’re missing the big picture? If you look at neutron scattering data…
Sheldon: Oh, Penny? Penny?

Penny: What’s up?
Sheldon: Nothing. I just wanted to make Raj stop talking.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello. I see you decided to go with pathetic and frightened.

Raj: You’re being unreasonable. Why can’t I have a desk?
Sheldon: Our collaboration is a work of the mind. We don’t need desks.

Raj: You have a desk.
Sheldon: Correct.

Raj: But I can’t have one.
Sheldon: You’re two for two.

Leonard: Why can’t he have a desk, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Oh, Lord, will this day never end? As I’ve explained repeatedly to Dr. Koothrappali, whose ability to comprehend the American idiom fails him when it’s convenient, there’s absolutely no money in my budget for additional office furniture.

Raj: Oh, but there’s money for a drawer full of Red Vines, a marshmallow shooting rifle, and a super executive ant farm with glow-in-the-dark sand?
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: Yeah, what if I buy my own desk?
Sheldon: That’s ridiculous.

Howard: Why?
Sheldon: Because…

Raj: Yes?
Sheldon: It’s my office.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: All right, all right. He can buy his own desk.

Raj: And I can put it in your office?
Sheldon: Well, you really want to dot the I’s and cross the T’s, don’t you?

Leonard: Why would you want a glow-in-the-dark ant farm?
Sheldon: They do some of their best work at night.

Leonard: So anyway, Howard asked Penny to talk to Bernadette, and she did, and Bernadette agreed to meet him for a cup of coffee.
Sheldon: One question.

Leonard: Yeah?
Sheldon: Why on earth are you telling me all this?

Raj: You said I could buy a desk.
Sheldon: This isn’t a desk. This is a Brobdingnagian monstrosity.

Raj: Is that the American idiom for giant, big-ass desk?
Sheldon: It’s actually British.

Raj: Can you say it again for me?
Sheldon: Brobdingnagian.

Raj: One more time?
Sheldon: Brobdingnagian.

Raj: Now three times fast?
Sheldon: Brobdingnagian, Brobdingna… How did you even get it in here?

Raj: That’s for me, Ramon, Julio, Jesus and Rodrigo to know and you to find out.
Sheldon: All right, you’ve made your point. A fine prank, very amusing. Now get it out.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: I have three brothers and two sisters, Sheldon, I can do this all day.
Sheldon: All right, if you’re not going to remove it, I’ll remove it for you.

Raj: Knock yourself out.
Sheldon: Help me move my desk.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: No. It’s too Brobdingnagian.
Sheldon: Why do you even want this here? Its size is completely disproportionate to its purpose.

Raj: Well, seeing as its purpose was to piss you off, I’d say it’s spot-on.
Sheldon: All right, I see what’s going on. This is the opening salvo in what will be an escalating series of juvenile tit-for-tat exchanges. Well titted.

Raj: Thank you.
Sheldon: Stand by for my upcoming tat.

Raj: Hey, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes?

Leonard: Oh, God, what’s that smell? (Knocks on Sheldon’s door. Sheldon answers in a gas mask). Oh-ho-hoo!
Sheldon: Yes?

Leonard: What are you doing in there?
Sheldon: I’m making hydrogen sulphide and ammonia gas. Just a little experiment in pest control.

Raj: It’s not gonna work, dude, I grew up in India, an entire subcontinent where cows walk in the street, and nobody has ever had a solid bowel movement.
Sheldon: Well, we’ll just see how long you can hold out.

Leonard: Didn’t you say you’re making hydrogen sulphide gas?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Isn’t that flammable?
Sheldon: Highly. Oh, dear. (Explosion)

Leonard: All I’m saying is, if they took all the money they spent trying to make a decent Hulk movie, they could probably just make an actual Hulk.
Sheldon: That is apt and amusing. I think I shall share that with Amy Farrah Fowler. She’ll appreciate the witticism.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: It’ll also help improve her initial impression of you.

Leonard: So what’s going on with you two?
Sheldon: Well, the status is as it always was. She’s a girl. She’s a friend. She is not my, please forgive me for doing this, girlfriend.

Leonard: Right, right. So you’re still just texting and emailing? You don’t feel any need to hang out with her, you know, be in the same room?
Sheldon: Leonard, you are my best friend. I’ve known you for seven years, and I can barely tolerate sitting on the couch with you. Imagine my attitude regarding prolonged physical proximity to Amy Farrah Fowler.

Leonard: Got it.
Sheldon: I sense judgment on your part.

Leonard: No, no. Maybe a little.
Sheldon: May I suggest that your criticism is based on jealousy.

Leonard: Jealousy? What do I have to be jealous of?
Sheldon: I have a functioning and satisfying relationship with a female. You have none.

Leonard: Oh, right. That.
Sheldon: Jealousy is an ugly green-eyed monster, not unlike the Hulk, who, by the way, also has a girlfriend. In this iteration, Jennifer Connelly, whom you may recall as the girlfriend of Russell Crowe in A Beautiful Mind, a feel-good romp if there ever was one.

Leonard: I’m not jealous.
Sheldon: Hu-u-urgh! Leonard not jealous.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: You know, it just occurred to me, if there are an infinite number of parallel universes, in one of them, there’s probably a Sheldon who doesn’t believe parallel universes exist.

Leonard: Probably. What’s your point?
Sheldon: No point. It’s just one of the things that makes one of the mes chuckle. What makes you chuckle, Leonard?

Leonard: Hmm, recently? Not much.
Sheldon: Is it because of the conflict that arises from your desperate need to pair-bond with a woman, and the apparent collective decision of all womankind to deny you that opportunity?

Leonard: Um, shut up.
Sheldon: You know, when my grandfather died, and Meemaw was alone, my mom arranged for her to visit a centre three times a week where she could socialize with other lonely people. It’s very nice. They discuss current events, play bridge, get a hot meal.

Leonard: That sounds lovely.
Sheldon: It is if you like bridge. Do you like bridge, Leonard?

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m just not dating someone right now. I don’t need to go to a senior centre.
Sheldon: Meemaw resisted at first, but now she loves it.

Leonard: Fine. If I don’t meet someone soon, you can put me in a home.
Sheldon: It’s not a home. It’s a senior centre.  We’d never put Meemaw in a home!

Raj: Hey.
Sheldon: All right, I’ll bow to social pressure. Hey!

Leonard: Great. You have a girlfriend, Howard’s got a girlfriend, Sheldon’s got a girl…
Sheldon: No, no, no, no!

Leonard: …who’s a friend.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Scene: The apartment. Leonard is stretched face down on the sofa.
Sheldon: Leonard? Are you sleeping?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Are you ill?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Are you still depressed because you’re alone, and no one loves you?

Leonard: I don’t know. Maybe.
Sheldon: I want you to know that I’m genuinely concerned about your well-being.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. But it’s still no reason to have your feet in my spot.

Leonard: What the hell? How long has she been here?
Sheldon: Since we got home from the comic bookstore.

Leonard: That was two hours ago.
Sheldon: As per your suggestion, we’re hanging out. Quite frankly, I don’t see what all the hoopla’s about. Go on, Amy.

Amy: From a neurobiological standpoint, Leonard, you may be alone because your psychological state is causing an actual pheromone-based stink of desperation.
Sheldon: Did you know that, Leonard?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: I did.

Leonard: No, I’m not gonna try to pick up a woman in a bar.
Sheldon: Wise decision. You see, Amy, success at a bar is based on classic male attributes such as height, strength, attractiveness, the ability to hold one’s liquor and throw darts, separately or together. Leonard has none of these attributes, right, Leonard?

Amy: That’s not true of all bars. Juice bars, for example.
Sheldon: Oh! Good point, Amy. Yeah, building on your premise, Leonard could frequent sushi bars, salad bars, oyster bars, the Apple Genius Bar, what are you doing?

Amy: That was rude.
Sheldon: He does it all the time. He’s a cornucopia of social awkwardness.

Amy: Cornucopia. What a mellifluous word.
Sheldon: Let’s make that our word of the day.

Amy: Agreed. And we’ll use mellifluous tomorrow.
Sheldon: Well, I have to void my bladder. It was nice spending this time with you.

Amy: Wait. I have a request.
Sheldon: Yes?

Amy: I’d like you to meet my mother.
Sheldon: I see. Can I get back to you on that?

Amy: Certainly. Good night.
Sheldon: Good night. (Closing laptop, and running down stairs in panic) Leonard, Leonard, Leonard,

Leonard: Yeah, what?
Sheldon: Amy Farrah Fowler has asked me to meet her mother.

Leonard: Yeah. So?
Sheldon: What does that mean?

Leonard: Well, you know how you’re always saying that Amy is a girl who’s your friend, and not your girlfriend?
Sheldon: Uh-huh.

Leonard: You can’t say that anymore.
Sheldon: Wait. What?

Leonard: Look, she obviously wants to take your relationship to the next level.
Sheldon: I don’t want the next level. I like this level. Fix it for me!

Leonard: Me? Well, how am I supposed to fix it?
Sheldon: Simple! You want a girlfriend, Amy wants to be someone’s girlfriend. Take her off my hands. I give you my blessing.

Leonard: That is insane.
Sheldon: You’re right. It would never work. Amy finds you tedious.

Leonard: Okay, good luck.
Sheldon: Wait! What am I supposed to do?

Leonard: Well, have you considered telling her how you feel?
Sheldon: Leonard, I’m a physicist, not a hippie.

Leonard: All right, well, let me see if I can explain your situation using physics. What would you be if you were attached to another object by an inclined plane wrapped helically around an axis?
Sheldon: Screwed.

Leonard: There you go.
Sheldon: Amy’s right. He is tedious.

Leonard: Well, I’m off to meet Bernadette’s friend. How do I look?
Sheldon: As if one of the plants from Invasion of the Body Snatchers duplicated you in every way, only with an absurd amount of hair gel.

Leonard: What are you working on?
Sheldon: I’m removing my digital footprint from the Internet so Amy Farrah Fowler can’t find me and compel me to meet her mother.

Leonard: Ah, you’re going off the grid.
Sheldon: Exactly.

Leonard: The old Unabomber approach. Kudos.
Sheldon: Thank you. I’ve also sent Amy a relationship termination notice and changed my cell phone number and e-mail address.

Leonard: What if she just comes over?
Sheldon: She’ll get lost. We no longer live at 2311 Los Robles. We now live at 311 Los Robles.

Leonard: You changed the address on the building? What about mail?
Sheldon: Oh, no worries, I explained my predicament to our letter carrier. He was sympathetic. His exact words were, Got your back, Jack. Bitches be crazy.

Amy (off): Amy Farrah Fowler.
Sheldon: Darn! She found me!

Leonard: She’s been here before.
Sheldon: The only flaw in an otherwise perfect plan. Now, get my back, Jack.

Leonard: What do you want to do?
Sheldon: Tell her I’m not here.

Leonard: Okay, where are you?
Sheldon: I don’t know. You’ll have to devise a scenario that plausibly explains my absence, keeping in mind that the key to a good lie lies in the details.

Amy: All right. (Leaves)
Sheldon: Way to go on the details.

Amy: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Rats!

Amy: I believe a misunderstanding may have occurred when I asked you to meet my mother.
Sheldon: No misunderstanding. I’ve learned what that request actually means, and I don’t want to be joined to another object by an inclined plane wrapped helically around an axis.

Amy: In what way are you screwed? All I want to do is present you as my boyfriend to my mother so she’ll be satisfied that I’m in a relationship.
Sheldon: So we’d be perpetrating a ruse?

Amy: Precisely.
Sheldon: And you haven’t fallen hopelessly in love with me?

Amy: Don’t be absurd. I find the notion of romantic love to be an unnecessary cultural construct that adds no value to human relationships.
Sheldon: Amy Farrah Fowler, that’s the most pragmatic thing anyone has ever said to me.

Amy: I trust this clarification allows us to return to boy-slash-friend-slash-girl-slash-friend status.
Sheldon: Of course. Would you like to join me for Chinese food?

Amy: Sheldon, please, you’re suffocating me.
Sheldon: My apologies. Good night, Amy.

Mrs Fowler (on webcam): It’s nice to meet you, too, Sheldon. I honestly didn’t believe Amy when she told me she had a boyfriend.
Sheldon: I assure you I am quite real and I’m having regular intercourse with your daughter.

Mrs Fowler: What?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. We’re like wild animals in heat. It’s a wonder neither of us has been hurt.

Amy: You wanted me to have a boyfriend, Mother. Well, here he is. Have to sign off now. My hunger for Sheldon is stirring in my loins.
Sheldon: Oh, yes, it’s time for me to make love to your daughter’s vagina.

Amy: Thank you, Sheldon, that went very well.
Sheldon: Agreed. Amy, I find myself wondering if we should actually engage in coitus at least one time in our relationship. Bazinga. Bedtime. Please show yourself out.

Howard: This is the worst cobbler I’ve ever eaten. I mean it tastes like it was made of actual ground-up shoemaker.
Sheldon: Amusing. A play on the two meanings of cobbler.

Raj: Hey guys, guess who I found at LAX. My baby sister Priya.
Sheldon: Excuse me. I object. You propose a guessing game, yet you don’t give me enough time to guess. For the record, I was going to say your sister Priya.

Priya: Oh, Sheldon. You haven’t changed a bit, have you?
Sheldon: Why would I change?

Raj: Can you believe it? Little Priya’s one of the lead attorneys for the biggest car company in India.
Sheldon: Given that when we met her she was finishing law school and planning an internship at a large Indian car company, it’s actually extremely plausible.

Raj: Alright, this goes without saying, but I’m just going to say it anyway. Hands off my sister.
Sheldon: Why would I touch her, she’s covered with airplane germs.

Raj: Okay then.
Sheldon: Cobbler. I’m still laughing.

Raj: Oh, not really, just hang out.
Sheldon: I always tell people, if you have only one day in Los Angeles, make it a train day.

Raj: Train day?
Sheldon: The fun starts with brunch at Carney’s in Studio City, a hot dog stand in a converted railroad dining car. Next stop, Travel Town, an outdoor museum featuring 43 railroad engines, cars and other rolling stock from the 1880s to the 1930s. Finally, we’re off to the glitz and glamour of Hollywood for dinner at, that’s right, the Hollywood Carney’s, a hot dog stand in a different converted railroad dining car.

Raj: I don’t think we’re going to do that.
Sheldon: Well then apparently, you hate fun.

Raj: Uh, my plans with Priya.
Sheldon: He rejected train day.

Leonard: Did you make it clear that it’s two different train cars turned into hot dog stands?
Sheldon: Abundantly.

Leonard: I guess he just hates fun.
Sheldon: That’s what I said.

Priya: I don’t know, I just have the one day.
Sheldon: Do you like trains?

Priya: Not particularly.
Sheldon: You might as well just wait at the airport for your flight.

 
Sheldon: You are in a forest. There is quicksand to the west, a path leads to the east. Go east. An iron gate blocks your way. Open gate. It’s locked. Hmm, well, so much for that.

Leonard: It’s getting pretty late, how come you’re still up?
Sheldon: I’ve found an emulator online that lets you play classic text based computer games from the 1980s.

Leonard: That’s pretty cool.
Sheldon: Oh yes. It runs on the world’s most powerful graphics chip, imagination.

Leonard: You’ve really got to get out more.
Sheldon: Go north. You can’t go that way. Go west. A troll blocks your passage. Okay, fasten your seatbelts, kill troll. With what? With sword. (There is a knock on the door.) You don’t have the sword. Good golly, it’s as if it’s actually happening to me.

Leonard: Yeah, he does but he got caught up in a computer game and…
Sheldon: Hit troll with axe. Hit troll with axe. Hit troll with axe. Oh my, this is one tough troll.

Leonard: If the past is any indication, no.
Sheldon: Leonard, I’m trapped in quicksand, the axe is dragging me down.

Leonard: Drop axe.
Sheldon: Drop axe. Brilliant.

Leonard: Give me a minute. Sheldon,
Sheldon: Hold on. I have to figure out how to get the bucket, so I can carry the mud past the dragon.

Leonard: Sheldon, you need to work in the morning.
Sheldon: I know.

Leonard: Well then, bed mister.
Sheldon: Five more minutes.

Leonard: Really? You’re going to risk getting sleepy in the middle of your thermodynamic fluctuations seminar? You know what happens when you yawn in public.
Sheldon: Everyone will see my oddly shaped uvula.

Leonard: You don’t want that, do you?
Sheldon: No. But it’s a shame our society mocks the differently uvulated. Who was at the door?

Leonard: Oh, uh, building manager. They have to fix a pipe so the water will be off tomorrow from noon to two.
Sheldon: That’s unacceptable. We’re supposed to be given written notice.

Leonard: No, no, it doesn’t matter, we’ll be at work.
Sheldon: Well, what if I spill tomato soup on my shirt and have to come home to change, only to find there’s no water for an enzyme soak.

Leonard: Bifurcated uvula, Sheldon!
Sheldon: I’ll have the chicken noodle. Goodnight.

Leonard (to Priya): We’re going to have to be very quiet.
Sheldon: I know how to get the bucket! I can turn the axe around and use the handle to reach it. Let’s see. Go north. You are in a forest. Go north. You are in a forest. Go north. You are in a forest. Oh dear, I believe I’m lost. Well, I’ll just have to get a fresh start tomorrow.

Leonard: No, no, no, no, no. You just need, you just need, you just need to map it out. Come on, I’ll help you. So, uh, you stopped at the stream and you turned north three times?
Sheldon: Yes.

Priya: Aha, you’re funny.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I heard a woman laughing.

Leonard: Oh, uh, yeah, I was trying to see if I could laugh as a woman.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, good job, quite convincing. I smell perfume.

Leonard: Air freshener.
Sheldon: And is that lipstick on your cheek and neck.

Leonard: Uh, rash, that’s a bad rash.
Sheldon: My sympathies. I am no stranger to the crimson scourge that is dermatitis. Can I interest you in a topical steroid from my lotion and unguent collection?

Leonard: Uh, yeah, yeah, that sounds great.
Sheldon: Very well, I’m sure I can find something that will help you ditch that itch.

Leonard: Okay, he’s in the bathroom, let’s go.
Sheldon: Do you prefer ointment or cream?

Leonard: Uh, cream.
Sheldon: With or without a numbing agent?

Leonard: Without.
Sheldon: Really? Leonard, there are no heroes when it comes to dermatitis.

Leonard: Fine. With.
Sheldon: Prescription or non-prescription strength.

Leonard: Use your best judgement.
Sheldon: Well, I think I have a nice 2009 AnaMantle HC. It’s usually indicated for acutely inflamed haemorrhoids, but it also goes nicely with non mucosal body parts.

Leonard: Sounds great.
Sheldon: Excellent choice.

 
Sheldon: Priya?

Priya: Good morning, Sheldon.
Sheldon: For shame, Leonard. For shame. And to think I was ready to waste the last of my good haemorrhoid cream on you.

Leonard: Making pretty good time, huh?
Sheldon: Is that really what you want to talk about, Leonard?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: What do you want to talk about?

Leonard: Please don’t tell anyone I spent the night with Raj’s sister.
Sheldon: There it is. What if someone asks?

Leonard: No-one’s going to ask if I spent the night with Raj’s sister.
Sheldon: Perhaps. But they might ask me something else.

Leonard: Like what?
Sheldon: Like, has Leonard betrayed any of his friends recently?

Leonard: Priya and I are both adults. We didn’t betray Raj.
Sheldon: In fact, you did, but I was referring to Howard.

Leonard: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: April 12th, 2005, Bob’s Big Boy, Toluca Lake. Raj had just introduced us to Priya for the first time, and she was enjoying the sweet taste of Hindu rebellion in the form of a Bob’s Super Big Boy hamburger. In order to preserve your friendship, you and Howard made a pinky swear that neither of you would attempt to woo her. I had a patty melt.

Leonard: Okay, fine, I betrayed Howard.
Sheldon: And Raj.

Leonard: Alright, and Raj.
Sheldon: And me.

Leonard: You?
Sheldon: Violation of the roommate agreement, overnight guest notification clause.

Leonard: Okay fine, I’m, I’m a horrible human being, I’m the Darth Vader of Pasadena.
Sheldon: You’re far too short to be Darth Vader. At best you might be a turncoat Ewok.

Leonard: My point is, Priya’s gone. And it would be much better if no-one else found out about this.
Sheldon: You mean, you want me to keep a secret.

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: You know I can’t keep a secret.

Leonard: You can if you try. Think about it this way, if I were Batman and you were Alfred, you’d keep that secret. Right?
Sheldon: Why do you get to be Batman?

Leonard: Because, well, Batman has the secret.
Sheldon: Well Alfred has secrets too.

Leonard: Like what?
Sheldon: Alfred knows that Barbara Gordon is Batgirl. Which I’ve now just told to Batman. See, I can’t keep a secret.

 
Sheldon: Ta-da!

Leonard: What.
Sheldon: Ta-da. It’s short for da-da-da-da!

Leonard: Kind of busy here, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I know, that’s why I shortened it.

Leonard: What do you want.
Sheldon: I came to go over your alibi for last night.

Leonard: What alibi?
Sheldon: You’ve asked me to lie on your behalf, and as you know, I am deeply uncomfortable with impromptu dishonest, so I’ve provided you with an iron clad alibi. You couldn’t have spent last night with Priya, because you were with another woman.

Leonard: Oh, I’m so sure I’m going to regret this, but, who was I with?
Sheldon: The fun loving, and morally loose, Miss Maggie McGeary.

Leonard: Oh, God.
Sheldon: You met her at Pasadena’s most popular Irish watering hole, Lucky Baldwin’s, where Maggie spends her nights tending bar, with a head full of curls and a heart full of dreams.

Leonard (reading a napkin Sheldon has handed him): Leonard, call me if you’re interested in coitus. Sincerely, Maggie McGeary.
Sheldon: And if anyone were to actually call that number they will hear this.

Mechanical voice on Sheldon’s phone: Top of the morning to you. You’ve reached Maggie McGeary. Leave a message after the wee little beep.
Sheldon: It’s pretty convincing, huh? And it wasn’t even a real person. And here is the clincher. A lock of Maggie’s flaming auburn hair.

Leonard: Where did you get that?
Sheldon: From an orang-u-tan in the primate lab.

Leonard: An orang-u-tan?
Sheldon: Well, no-one’s going to run a DNA test on it, Leonard, honestly you over-think everything.

Leonard: C’mon Raj, how am I supposed to know who she’s attracted to. Or was attracted to. Or who she might be attracted to. In the future.
Sheldon: And I have nothing to contribute to this conversation. Because I too know absolutely nothing about Priya’s preferences in male companionship. And with that, I will re-zip my lip.

Leonard: To, uh, Lucky Baldwin’s.
Sheldon: Oh, I’ve heard of that place, isn’t that Pasadena’s favourite Irish watering hole.

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Did you meet anyone interesting there, perhaps a promiscuous redheaded barmaid?

Leonard: As a matter of fact I.. I… I can’t… I can’t… I can’t do it.
Sheldon: Sure you can, you’re doing fine, it’s very believable.

Leonard: Look, I’m sorry Raj, but the truth is I was with Priya last night.
Sheldon: Don’t listen to him, he’s still light headed from all the Irish whiskey and pickled eggs in his system.

Raj: What were you doing with Priya?
Sheldon: I believe they engaged in coitus but, more importantly, if Leonard had not abandoned his story, would you have found it plausible?

Raj: Excuse me, I think how could you she’s my sister takes precedence over a five year old pinky swear!
Sheldon: May I point out, in a parallel universe, your friends are saying Maggie McGeary, she sounds lovely.

Raj: Dude! I put that thing on my face!
Sheldon: I think a more amusing violation of Raj’s trust is when Howard convinced him that foreigners give presents to Americans on Thanksgiving.

Howard: And as long as we’re talking about betraying our friends, how about the month Sheldon spent grinding up insects and mixing them into Leonard’s food.
Sheldon: Well, excuse me. That was not a betrayal, that was an experiment to determine at what concentration food starts tasting mothy.

Leonard: You put moths in my food?
Sheldon: For science.

Leonard: Well, uh, I can’t believe you used Sheldon’s toothbrush.
Sheldon: You used my toothbrush?

Raj: As long as we’re apologising, Sheldon, I, I’m sorry I used your toothbrush.
Sheldon: And I’m sorry. But that behaviour is beyond the pale and cannot be tolerated. We are no longer friends.

Raj: I got you a talking Thomas the Tank Engine for Thanksgiving.
Sheldon: With real puffing smoke?

Raj: Yes.
Sheldon: Alright. But I’m watching you.

Leonard: Hey, you got Snoopy out. Can I have a snowcone?
Sheldon: Well, sure.

Leonard: These are pretty god, what flavour is this?
Sheldon: Guess.

Leonard: Papaya?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Guava?
Sheldon: You’re so close.

Leonard: I give up.
Sheldon: Mango, caterpillar. What are you doing? You said you liked it!

Leonard: No, seriously, I think I’ve finally figured out my problem with women.
Sheldon: The capybara is the largest member of the rodent family.

Leonard: What does that have to do with me and women?
Sheldon: Nothing. It was a desperate attempt to introduce an alternate topic of conversation.

Howard: Good news. I made it onto the team for the new Defence Department laser-equipped surveillance satellite.
Sheldon: Excuse me. If we’re changing topics, I believe I have first dibs with capybara, a rodent the size of a baby hippo.

Raj: Nobody cares. Do you know how long it’s been since I got through airport security without being given a colonoscopy?
Sheldon: You know, I try very hard to make our lunch hours educational and informative, but your insistence on talking about your own lives stymies me at every turn.

Leonard: Fine, Sheldon, tell us about your giant rodents.
Sheldon: No, you squandered your time with me, and the moment has now passed. Feast on your disappointment, much as the capybara feasts on its own waste.

Leonard: Want to get that?
Sheldon: Not particularly.

Leonard: Could you get that?
Sheldon: I suppose I could if I were asked.

Leonard: Would you please get that?
Sheldon: Of course. Why do you have to make things so complicated?

Page: Dr. Cooper?
Sheldon: Yes.

Page: I’m Special Agent Page, FBI.
Sheldon: You say you’re Special Agent Page, FBI.

Page: Here’s my I.D.
Sheldon: And here is my Justice League membership card. But that doesn’t prove I know Batman.

Page: I just want to ask you a few questions about Howard Wolowitz.
Sheldon: Oh. All right. I doubt anyone would risk the stiff penalties for impersonating a federal officer just to ask questions about a minor league engineer with an unresolved Oedipal complex.

Page: Thank you.
Sheldon: For the record, I truly support the FBI in the mission which is expressed through their motto?

Page: Fidelity, bravery, integrity?
Sheldon: Correct. Now to business. 18 years ago, I sent the FBI Crime Lab samples from a bag of excrement that had been lit on fire on my front porch for fingerprinting and DNA analysis. Why haven’t I heard back yet?

Page: Well, the FBI Crime Lab does have a lot on its plate.
Sheldon: That’s of little comfort to a nation attempting to scrape burning feces off its shoes.

Page: Would you mind if we talked about Mr. Wolowitz now?
Sheldon: A little, but go on.

Page: Thank you. Would you characterize him as responsible?
Sheldon: I’m going to answer that with a visual aid. This is my nine-disc complete Lord of the Rings trilogy blu-ray set.  Mr. Wolowitz borrowed it, damaged plastic retention hub number three, and then returned it to me, hoping I wouldn’t notice. Would you characterize that as responsible?

Page: That’s really not the sort of thing we’re interested in.
Sheldon: You heard me say blu-ray, right?

Page: I did.
Sheldon: Very well. Would you be interested in knowing that Mr. Wolowitz once snuck onto my World of Warcraft account and changed the name of a certain level-80 warlock from Sheldor to Smeldor?

Page: I’m afraid not. Is there anything else?
Sheldon: Is there anything else? Where would you like to start? He refuses to pay fines when he’s overdue with books I lend him. He crashed the Mars Rover while attempting to impress a woman. He recommended that I go see the third Matrix movie because it was, and I quote, just as good as the first one. If that’s not irresponsible, I don’t know what is.

Page: The Mars Rover?
Sheldon: Did I say Mars Rover?

Page: You did.
Sheldon: That was actually a poorly chosen example, as it had nothing to do with me.

Page: Yes, well, let’s talk about it anyway.
Sheldon: I don’t want to. Not that my disinclination to discuss the topic should be interpreted as evidence of Howard Wolowitz’s culpability in the destruction of government property worth millions of dollars.

Page: Thank you, Dr. Cooper. I think I have all I need.
Sheldon: Oh, good. I was afraid you were going to fixate on that Mars Rover incident.

Leonard: To tell you the truth, I thought if anyone was going to screw things up for Howard, it’d be Sheldon.
Sheldon: Well, your expectations have been subverted. Aha.

Leonard: What are you doing up?
Sheldon: Sleep eludes me, Leonard.

Leonard: Really? Maybe sleep has met you before.
Sheldon: Mockery? That’s all you have to offer?

Leonard: I’m sorry. Why can’t you sleep?
Sheldon: Who knows? I haven’t watched any scary movies recently. I’m no longer obsessing over why the predicted mass of the quantum vacuum has little effect on the expansion of the universe. And it’s been weeks since I took that accidental sip of Red Bull.

Leonard: Did something happen today that’s bothering you?
Sheldon: Well, I did mention the Mars Rover incident to that FBI agent and probably cost Howard his security clearance.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: But why should that keep me up?

Leonard: Because you feel guilty?
Sheldon: Interesting. So you’re saying my insomnia is caused by a guilty conscience.

Leonard: Actually, you don’t have insomnia. You’re sleeping now.
Sheldon: Excuse me?

Leonard: You’re having a guilt-ridden dream.
Sheldon: Do you have any evidence to support that hypothesis?

Leonard: How about that Gorn sitting on the couch?
Sheldon: That seems fairly conclusive. (In his bed) No, Gorn, no. That’s where I sit.

Scene: Agent Page’s Office.
Sheldon: Thank you for agreeing to see me, Agent Page.

Page: Thank you for filing a complaint with my superior, Dr. Cooper. I understand you want to recant your statement about Howard Wolowitz.
Sheldon: Yes.

Page: Was your statement untrue?
Sheldon: No.

Page: Then I’m afraid you can’t withdraw it.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I don’t recall you saying no backsies.

Page: Is there anything else?
Sheldon: Yes. I’d like to offer a laudatory statement about Howard’s many excellent qualities that I believe will tip the scales back in his favour. Howard Joel Wolowitz. H is for honesty, of which he has much. O’s for outstanding, which he is such. W’s for witty, he’s quick with a joke. A’s for artistic, his ability…

Page: I’m sorry, Dr. Cooper, this matter is already closed.
Sheldon: But I still have rd Joel Wolowitz left to go.

Page: It’s closed.
Sheldon: I don’t understand why you people are picking on my friend, Howard, when there are much more serious security threats to pursue. For instance, when I first met Leonard, he was on the verge of giving away rocket secrets to a North Korean spy, and not one agent ever investigated that.

Page: This is Leonard Hofstadter?
Sheldon: No, it’s a different Leonard. He’s Chinese, red hair, six fingers. Good-bye.

Scene: A corridor at the university.
Sheldon: Raj. Have you seen Howard?

Raj: I think he’s eating lunch. Uh, Sheldon, I want you to meet Neil deGrasse Tyson from the Hayden Planetarium in New York.
Sheldon: I’m quite familiar with Dr. Tyson. He’s responsible for the demotion of Pluto from planetary status. I liked Pluto. Ergo I do not like you.

Dr Tyson: But I actually didn’t demote Pluto. That was a vote of the International Astronomical Union.
Sheldon: If ifs and buts were candy and nuts, we’d all have a merry Christmas. Think about that, Dr. Tyson.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Howard. The person at fault for you not getting a security clearance is me.

Howard: You?
Sheldon: Yes, but before you get upset, I want you to know I went to the FBI and retracted my statement.

Howard: And they were okay with that?
Sheldon: No. If anything, I made it worse. In any case, I have been riddled with guilt, which is causing Gorn-infested REM sleep. So, I’m here now to say I’m sorry.

Howard: Are you kidding me? You’ve set my career back at least two years, and you think you can make it right with I’m sorry?
Sheldon: Yes. I followed the social protocol. I attempted to right the wrong, and when I failed to do so I delivered a heartfelt apology. Now you say apology accepted, and I will offer you a one-time-only high five.

Howard: Your apology is not accepted.
Sheldon: You’re tricking me. It really is, isn’t it?

Dr Tyson: Dr. Cooper, I just wanted you to know I’m sorry for the role I played in the Pluto matter.
Sheldon: Oh, shut up.

Penny: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: What are you doing here?
Sheldon: I have troubles, Penny. I’ve come to pour them out to the sympathetic ear of the local barkeep.

Penny: You know, they have a really nice bar over at the Olive Garden.
Sheldon: I don’t like the Olive Garden. They treat me like family.

Penny: Okay, Sheldon. What can I get you?
Sheldon: Alcohol.

Penny: Could you be a little more specific?
Sheldon: Ethyl alcohol. 40 millilitres.

Penny: I’m sorry, honey, I don’t know millilitres.
Sheldon: Ah. Blame President James “Jimmy” Carter. He started America on a path to the metric system but then just gave up. He wonders why he was a one-term president.

Penny (pouring out a shot of tequila): Would you say that’s about 40 milliliters?
Sheldon: More or less.

Penny: Great. (Drinks the tequila) Now, where were we?
Sheldon: I believe you were about to ask me to choose a cocktail. Fortunately, thanks to computer-savvy alcoholics, there’s an app for that. Let’s see. Harvey Wallbanger. Eh. Sex on the Beach. I hardly think so. Rob Roy, Silk Slipper, Mad Hatter. Ooh! I’ll have a Rosewater Ricky.

Penny: A what?
Sheldon: You’ll need pitted, brandied cherries, gin, rosewater, angostura bitters and overproofed rum. Now, first, dust the cherries with sugar, then spray them with a mixture of rum and bitters. Then ignite the rum, caramel…

Penny (pouring out a shot of tequila): Here you go, one Rosewater Ricky.
Sheldon: That’s not how it looks in the picture.

Penny: Oh, yeah, you know, every bartender makes it differently. Why don’t you give it a try.
Sheldon: All right. To the metric system. (Knocks back drink. Spits it all back into glass.) I can’t taste the cherries.

Penny: All right. Sheldon, what’s on your mind?
Sheldon: I wronged Howard, and he won’t accept my apology.

Penny: Oh, right, that. Yes, Leonard told me. Sorry, honey.
Sheldon: Penny, you face failure on a daily basis. How do you cope?

Penny: I drink.
Sheldon: To drinking. (Knocks back drink and spits it out again.) Nope. Oh, if only there were some way to force Howard to accept my apology so I could escape this miasma of guilt.

Penny: You know, sometimes stuff just happens, and there’s nothing you can do about it. For example, Lisa Peterson hasn’t talked to me since the 11th grade, because no matter how much you apologize, you can’t go back and un-dry-hump someone’s boyfriend.
Sheldon: I see. You’re saying I’m facing Starfleet Academy’s unwinnable command scenario, the Kobayashi Maru.

Penny: Exactly. Sometimes you can’t win.
Sheldon: Captain Kirk won.

Penny: Kirk cheated.
Sheldon: Impressive that you know that. It’s hard to believe I’m actually having this conversation with you.

Penny: Right there with you.
Sheldon: Kirk beat the Kobayashi Maru by reprogramming the simulator. That’s it.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: I’ll reprogram Howard.

Penny: What? Sheldon, you can’t reprogram people.
Sheldon: No, you can’t reprogram people. To James Tiberius Kirk. (Drinks. Leaves. Comes back and spits it out again.)

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Hello, all.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Howard, you’re feeling better about me today, aren’t you?

Howard: Not really.
Sheldon: Yes, you are. I’m using neurolinguistic programming to modify your thought patterns.

Howard: Oh. Go away, Sheldon.
Sheldon: There’s a nine ninety five e-book down the drain.

Raj: What’s in the bag?
Sheldon: It’s for Howard.

Howard: Oh. Sheldon, you can’t fix this with gifts.
Sheldon: Nevertheless, I’ve hurt you, and whether you forgive me or not, I want you to have this.

Howard: You’re giving me a couch cushion?
Sheldon: No. The cushion is merely symbolic. I’m giving you my spot on the couch.

Howard: But you love that spot.
Sheldon: No. I love my mother. My feelings for my spot are much greater. It is the singular location in space around which revolves my entire universe. And now it’s yours.

Howard: All right. Apology accepted.
Sheldon: High five. Not too hard. Thank you.

Howard: I got to tell you, Sheldon, I understand why you chose this spot. I mean, the temperature is good, but there’s no draft. I can see the television, but I can still talk to…
Sheldon: I changed my mind. Get out of my spot.

Penny: You know, I could totally rock a hat like that.
Sheldon: That’s the work of noted Hollywood costume designer Deborah Nadoolman. She also designed the iconic red and black jacket in Michael Jackson’s Thriller video, which I’ve never viewed in its entirety, as I find zombies dancing in choreographed synchronicity implausible. And also, it’s really scary.

Leonard: Would someone please turn off the Sheldon commentary track?
Sheldon: There’s no switch. Just listen and learn.

Penny: Well, I’m watching it now. Why would I want to see it again on Friday?
Sheldon: Because the print they’re showing on Friday has an additional 21 seconds of previously unseen footage.

Leonard: Exactly. They say it finally solves the submarine controversy.
Sheldon: Did Leonard? I’m no expert, but I believe what we just heard from Penny was sarcasm. (She indicates it was) Oh, good. I’m eight for 26 this month.

Scene: The Cheesecake Factory.
Sheldon: May I point out to you all that the screening is first come, first served?

Leonard: Relax, it’s five o’clock. The movie doesn’t start till midnight.
Sheldon: Another way of saying that is the movie starts at midnight, and it’s already five o’clock. Let’s go.

Howard: You know, if we miss it, we’ll have the fun of listening to Sheldon whine about it for the rest of our lives.
Sheldon: See? Howard’s on my side.

Howard: Actually, I’m not. I’m using sarcasm to mock you.
Sheldon: Drat. Now I’m 8 for 27.

Leonard: Don’t worry, Sheldon. We’ll be fine.
Sheldon: What happened to the Leonard Hofstadter who waited in line with me for 14 hours to see the midnight premiere of Star Trek: Nemesis?

Leonard: Oh. Well, he waited in line for 14 hours, while you napped in a lawn chair, he got in a fight with a Klingon when he stepped out of line to pee and you wouldn’t wake up to vouch for him, and worst of all, he saw Star Trek: Nemesis.
Sheldon: But how were our seats?

Leonard: Excellent.
Sheldon: I rest my case. Amy, don’t you agree we should leave now and get in line?

Amy: Actually, as the newest member of your social group, I believe I’ll gain more acceptance by arbitrarily siding with your friends from time to time.
Sheldon: Shrewd.

Leonard: Hysterical!
Sheldon: Wait, now, we don’t know that yet. He isn’t finished. I have a girlfriend and you don’t who?

Amy: All right. I’ll have to go shopping.
Sheldon: Knock-knock.

Leonard: Who‘s there?
Sheldon: Hugh.

Leonard: Hugh who?
Sheldon: Hugh people need to listen to me. It’s time to get in line for the movie. And that’s how you tell a knock-knock joke.

Scene: The movie theatre. The line is incredibly long.
Sheldon: Under normal circumstances I’d say, I told you so. But as I have told you so with such vehemence and frequency already, the phrase has lost all meaning. Therefore, I will be replacing it with the phrase I informed you thusly.

Howard: Ooh. Can’t wait for that to start.
Sheldon: I informed you thusly.

Raj: Eight for 28.
Sheldon: This is where we could have been if we hadn’t stopped for dinner. This is where we could have been if Koothrappali hadn’t ordered dessert.

Raj: Well I earned it, dude, I ate all my broccoli.
Sheldon: And here’s where we are. The runts in a large litter, unlikely to ever reach the nourishing teats of Indiana Jones.

Raj: Hey, guys, bad news. I just did a quick calculation. Given the size of the theatre  and the length of this line, we might not get seats.
Sheldon: What did he say?

Leonard: Nice going, Raj, just got him down for his nap.
Sheldon: We might not get seats?

Leonard: It’s fine, it’s fine. Go back to sleep.
Sheldon: Oh, I informed you thusly. I so informed you thusly.

Wil Wheaton: Hey, look who’s here! Hey, buddies!
Sheldon: Well, if it isn’t Wil Wheaton, the Jar Jar Binks of the Star Trek universe.

Wil: Mee-sa think that very funny.
Sheldon: Well, you-sa can go think that at the back of the line. No cuts, no buts, no coconuts.

Theatre Staff: I’m a big fan.
Sheldon: Of what? Poorly executed beards?

Wil: Oh, awesome. We-sa gonna go into the movie now. Bye-bye.
Sheldon: This is Indiana Jones, not Star Trek. There should be no value to his pseudo-celebrity here. And even at Star Trek conventions, they only let him in if he helps set up.

Leonard: Calm down, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I will not calm down. This affront to justice and decency cannot go unanswered. As Captain Jean-Luc Picard once said, the line must be drawn here! This far, no farther!

Raj: Oh, oh, uh, looks like they’re getting ready to let people in.
Sheldon: Listen to what Mr. Wil Wheaton is tweeting. Best seats in house for Raiders screening. Suck on that, Sheldon Cooper.

Leonard: Why do you read his Twitter feed? You know it’s only going to upset you.
Sheldon: I believe in knowing my enemy, Leonard. Had Twitter existed at the time, would not General Custer have followed the tweets of Sitting Bull? Would not Lee have followed Grant? Would not Spy have followed Spy? I have more examples, but excuse me. (On phone) Hello. Well, this seems like an odd time to test my cell phone quality, but go on. Test phrases? All right. Imatote. Ulbu. Twad. All together? I’m a total buttwad. Why are you laughing? Hello?

Scene: The movie line. 
Sheldon: Munching on complimentary popcorn. Woot, woot. Oh, the gall. I hope his next tweet is popcorn lodged in trachea, choking to death, woot, woot.

Theatre staff: Guys, I am sorry. We are full up.
Sheldon: No!

Theatre staff: Sorry. Fire regulations. Should’ve gotten here earlier.
Sheldon: This is nothing but a blatant abuse of power by a petty functionary. Explain to me why Wil Wheaton and his lackeys get in and we don’t.

Howard: I guess that’s that. Let’s go home.
Sheldon: You know what? I’m going back to I told you so. I told you so.

Raj: We can still see something. Uh, the new Sandra Bullock movie is playing two blocks away. You know Sandy B always brings it.
Sheldon: Look, a side door. Come on, Short Round.

Howard: Where did he go? (Raj whistles) We’re looking for Sheldon, not Marmaduke.
Sheldon: You whistled?

Leonard: What is that?
Sheldon: Raiders of the Lost Ark, with 21 additional seconds. If I can’t see it, no one else can see it.

Leonard: Sheldon, this is crazy.
Sheldon: No. Crazy was leaving the projection booth unattended.

Leonard: Listen to me. You are over-tired. You’re not thinking right. Put the movie back before we get into trouble.
Sheldon: Trouble is my middle name, Leonard. Actually, it’s Lee, but I prefer Trouble.

Wil Wheaton: Oh, look who they let in.
Sheldon: Don’t worry, Wil Wheaton. I was just leaving.  Da-da-da-da, da-da-da!

Scene: Outside the movie theatre.
Sheldon: Da-da-da-da, da-da-da!

Wil: He’s got the movie! Get him!
Sheldon: Why is there never a pontoon plane when you need one?

Leonard: He’s not braver than whoever uses the bathroom after The Thing?
Sheldon: As usual, you’re all wrong. The bravest person in the Marvel Universe is the doctor who gives Wolverine his prostate exam.

Howard: How about the guy who gets a prostate exam from Wolverine?
Sheldon: Now you just being silly. Wolverine’s never displayed the slightest interest in helping others prevent prostate cancer. (Answering phone) Hello. Yes, the elevator’s out of order you’ll have to use the stairs. Of course you can. Pizza dates back to the 16th century, while the first elevator was not installed until 1852. That means that for over 300 years, people carried pizzas up stairs. Be part of that proud tradition.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Are you sure you have enough comics? You’re going to be monitoring the telescope for 12 hours, and by my estimate, you’ve only selected seven hours of reading material. That’s even factoring in your difficulty in parsing American comic book idioms like Bamf and Snikt.

Raj: Oh, okay. Good. I don’t need more comics. Howard’s gonna stop by, we’re gonna play intergalactic battleship and Indian Monopoly.
Sheldon: I don’t care for novelty editions of Monopoly. I prefer the classics, regular and Klingon.

Leonard: You’ll never guess what just happened.
Sheldon: You went out in the hallway, stumbled into an interdimensional portal which brought you 5,000 years into the future, where you took advantage of the advanced technology to build a time machine, and now you’re back to bring us all with you to the year 7010 where we are transported to work at the thinkatorium by telepathically controlled flying dolphins?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Aw.

Leonard: Penny kissed me.
Sheldon: Well, who would ever guess that?

Leonard: Penny kissing me is not insane. She used to kiss me all the time.
Sheldon: Einstein defined insanity as doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. By that standard, Penny is cuckoo for cocoa puffs.

Leonard: Why do I bother talking to you people?
Sheldon: If it’ll make you feel better, we rarely listen.

Leonard: Yeah, sure.
Sheldon: I’m starting to think we’re never going to see that pizza.

Penny: Love you, too.
Sheldon: Oh, friggety-frak. Not this again.

Penny: Maybe.
Sheldon: Leonard, Penny, excellent. I’d like to say I’m very happy that you’re back together, and if I can figure out a way to do so and sound sincere, I will. In the meantime, I’d like to go over some proposed changes to the roommate agreement specifically to address Penny’s annoying personal habits.

Leonard: Ba-ba-ba-ba. Are you sure you want to include him in this?
Sheldon: Include me in what? Is there a plot afoot? I’ll have no truck with plots.

Penny: No, you’re right. No, there’s, there’s no plots, no trucks, no feet. So what other annoying habits shall we discuss?
Sheldon: Uh, we don’t discuss anything. Leonard is the signatory to the Roommate Agreement. As such, he bears responsibility for all your infractions and must pay all fines.

Leonard: Fines?
Sheldon: Yes. If Penny’s going to be spending nights here again, you’ll need to set up an escrow account. Sign here.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Oh, there you are. Just so you know, I was up all night, but I have finally completed the Penny-specific section of the new roommate agreement.

Leonard: Yeah, well, not necessary. We broke up again.
Sheldon: Do you even think about other people, Leonard? Do you?

Raj: Why? You writing a book?
Sheldon: I’m going to propose a hypothesis. Last night, Raj accidentally made contact with an alien civilization and has been ordered by the United States government to keep it a secret.

Raj: Nothing happened. Can we please just change the subject?
Sheldon: That sounds rehearsed. We are not alone.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Clarify something for me. Isn’t the point of a communal meal the exchange of ideas and opinions? An opportunity to consider important issues of the day?

Leonard: It is. You just kind of put a damper on things when you said, the next person I see talking with food in their mouth will be put to death.
Sheldon: Well, we could argue about who said what all night long, but to set things back on course, I will propose a new topic of conversation.

Leonard: Great.
Sheldon: What is the best number? By the way, there’s only one correct answer.

Raj: Five million, three hundred eighteen thousand and eight?
Sheldon: Wrong. The best number is 73. You’re probably wondering why.

Raj: We’re good.
Sheldon: 73 is the 21st prime number. Its mirror, 37, is the 12th, and its mirror, 21, is the product of multiplying, hang on to your hats, seven and three. Eh? Eh? Did I lie?

Leonard: We get it. 73 is the Chuck Norris of numbers.
Sheldon: Chuck Norris wishes. In binary, 73 is a palindrome, one-zero-zero-one-zero-zero-one which backwards is one-zero-zero-one-zero-zero-one, exactly the same. All Chuck Norris backwards gets you is Sirron Kcuhc.

Scene: Amy’s lab. 
Sheldon: Aren’t you slicing that man’s brain a little too thin?

Amy: It’s too thin if I were making a foot-long brain sandwich at Quiznos. For examination under a two-photon microscope, it’s fine.
Sheldon: Well, you’re the expert. If the correct way to do it is the wrong way, then I yield.

Amy: Very well. If you die and donate your body to science, I promise to slice your brain like Canadian bacon.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to take my temperature.
Sheldon: Are you monitoring your circadian rhythms in order to identify your periods of maximum mental acuity? I did that one summer. Ah, youth.

Amy: No, I experienced some distressing symptoms last night, so I’m checking my vital signs every hour.
Sheldon: I’d be happy to create a chart and participate in a differential diagnosis.

Amy: Oh, that sounds like fun.
Sheldon: All right. What were the symptoms?

Amy: Elevated heart rate, moist palms, dry mouth and localized vascular throbbing.
Sheldon: Localized to what region?

Amy: Ears and genitalia.
Sheldon: Interesting. Not body parts that usually team up. What about environmental factors? Describe the scene for me.

Amy: I was sitting in a restaurant with Penny and Bernadette, drinking water, carbonated as it was a special occasion. Penny’s friend Zack stopped by and said hello and I said hoo.
Sheldon: Who?

Amy: Zack.
Sheldon: Then why did you ask?

Amy: Ask what?
Sheldon: Who.

Amy: Zack.
Sheldon: All right, let’s start over. What did you say when Zack walked in?

Amy: Hoo.
Sheldon: Zack.

Amy: Why do you keep saying Zack?
Sheldon: Because you keep saying who.

Amy: I’m not saying hoo now. I said hoo last night.
Sheldon: And the answer was Zack, correct?

Amy: There was no question. I simply said hoo.
Sheldon: All right, I think I have enough to go on. Possible explanations for your symptoms are, in descending order of likelihood, hyperthyroidism, premature menopause, hosting an alien parasite or, and I only include it for the sake of covering absolutely all bases, sexual arousal.

Amy: My blood work shows thyroid function normal. Cortisol levels normal.
Sheldon: How about your follicle-stimulating hormone levels?

Amy: Sheldon, I am not going through menopause.
Sheldon: Are you sure? You said that with the testy bark of an old biddy.

Amy: I think we need to face the cold, hard truth, I was sexually aroused by Penny’s friend Zack.
Sheldon: Hang on. I don’t know that we’ve given the alien parasite hypothesis a fair shake.

Amy: Let’s look at this logically. I have a stomach, I get hungry. I have genitals, I have the potential for sexual arousal.
Sheldon: A cross we all must bear. You know, in difficult moments like this, I often turn to a force greater than myself.

Amy: Religion?
Sheldon: Star Trek. Did you see Star Trek: The Motion Picture?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Don’t. It’s terrible. However, in it, we learn that when Spock finds himself drawn off the path of logic by feelings bubbling up from his human half, he suppresses them using the Vulcan mental discipline of Kolinar.

Amy: Are you suggesting we live our lives guided by the philosophies found in cheap science fiction?
Sheldon: Cheap science fiction?

Amy: What are you doing?
Sheldon: Using Kolinar to suppress my anger at that last comment.

Amy: Is it possible that your concern for me at this moment is motivated by nothing more than simple jealousy?
Sheldon: I hadn’t considered that. Give me a moment. All right, I’ve considered it.

Amy: And?
Sheldon: I reject it.

Amy: You reject it because you don’t feel jealousy, or because you are suppressing jealousy?
Sheldon: I think I’ll eat my lunch at home.

Amy: That’s not your lunch, Sheldon, those are the cadaver brain specimens.
Sheldon: Oh. As they were incorrectly sliced, you can see how I could mistake them for my sashimi.

Scene: The laundry room.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: Hey. Isn’t tomorrow your usual laundry night?
Sheldon: The supermarket was out of my regular fabric softener. If this one under or over-softens, I’ll need time to make things right.

Penny: That’s thinking ahead.
Sheldon: The alternative would be to think backwards. And that’s just remembering.

Penny: So how’s Amy?
Sheldon: Amy’s changed. I might have to let her go.

Penny: Oh, no. Why?
Sheldon: I thought she was a highly evolved creature of pure intellect, like me. But recent events indicate that she may be a slave to her baser urges. Like you.

Penny: Just going to skip over that insult.
Sheldon: What insult?

scientific word?
Sheldon: Forget science. She’s horny.

Penny: Oh! Okay. Wow.
Sheldon: It’s simple biology. There’s nothing I can do about it.

Penny: Are you sure?
Sheldon: What are you suggesting?

Penny: I’m suggesting there might be something you could do about Amy’s urges?
Sheldon: It’s illegal to spay a human being.

Penny: Yeah. That’s not what I had in mind.
Sheldon: Oh. Oh! You mean something I could do.

Penny: Exactly.
Sheldon: Well, I was hoping to avoid this. But I might as well get it over with. Thank you, Penny. I’ll let you know what happens.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is on the phone.
Sheldon: Yes. This is Dr. Sheldon Cooper. Is this the Zack Johnson who used to have coitus with my neighbour Penny? Sorry to bother you. Hello. I’m looking for a Zack Johnson who used to have coitus with my neighbour Penny. Coitus. It means intercourse. And I have a feeling I’m speaking to the right Zack. This is Sheldon Cooper. Fine. Shelly. Yes, that does sound like a girl’s name. No, it doesn’t bother me. Yes, Smelly Shelly does bother me. Let me tell you why I’m calling. I’d like to know if you’d be interested in having sex with Amy Farrah Fowler. Amy Farrah Fowler. Yes, that is a girl’s name. Good grief. It’s like trying to talk to a dolphin.

Scene: A bar.
Sheldon: Look at this stamp. On what authority are they permitted to mutilate patrons as they enter?

Amy: I’m sure it’ll wash off.
Sheldon: Little comfort tonight. I look like a Hell’s Angel.

Amy: There’s Zack.
Sheldon: Are you sure this is what you want to do?

Amy: It’s not what I want to do, it’s what I have to do.
Sheldon: Go, Amy Farrah Fowler. Follow your endocrine system.

Amy: Thank you, Sheldon. You’re a good friend.
Sheldon: Please don’t drag this out. This is never going to come off.

Scene: A street. 
Sheldon: I’m glad you decided to reject your animal hindbrain and return to the realm of pure intellect.

Amy: As am I. (Holds Sheldon’s hand)
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Leonard: Lesser Warlord of Ka’a.
Sheldon: Not so fast. Infinite Sheldon.

Leonard: Infinite Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes, Infinite Sheldon defeats all other cards and does not violate the rule against homemade cards because I made it at work.

Leonard: Do you understand why people don’t want to play with you?
Sheldon: No, although it’s a question I’ve been pondering since preschool.

Zack: You know, I saw this great thing on the Discovery Channel. Turns out that if you kill a starfish, it’ll just come back to life.
Sheldon: Was the starfish wearing boxer shorts? Because you might have been watching Nickelodeon.

Zack: Well, maybe we can do an experiment to find out.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s easy enough. We’d need a large tank of water, a hoop to jump through, and a bucket of whatever bite-sized treats you find tasty.

Zack: Oh, I see. You guys are inferring that I’m stupid.
Sheldon: That’s not correct. We were implying it. You then inferred it.

Leonard: What would I even say?
Sheldon: Zack, I’m sorry you’re stupid. Have a Milk Dud.

Raj: A Milk Dud?
Sheldon: Yeah, Milk Duds, with their self-deprecating name and remarkably mild flavour, are the most apologetic of the boxed candies.

Raj: Junior Mints are pretty apologetic.
Sheldon: You’re embarrassing yourself.

Scene: At Penny’s door. Leonard knocks three times. 
Sheldon: Penny.

Leonard: Come on, that’s what we do. We give each other a hard time. Hey, Sheldon, you look like a praying mantis.
Sheldon: That’s very hurtful.

Zack: I don’t know, it still wasn’t very nice.
Sheldon: Milk Dud?

Zack: Really? I haven’t been to a comic book store in literally a million years.
Sheldon: Literally? Literally a million years?

Zack: Wow, this place is awesome. Where do they keep the Archies?
Sheldon: In the bedrooms of ten-year-old girls, where they belong.

Stuart: So are you guys coming to my New Year’s Eve costume party?
Sheldon: Of course. We’re coming as the Justice League of America.

Howard: Switching it up from last year when we came as the Justice League of America.
Sheldon: To that point, it occurs to me that we might have an opportunity to finally snare Best Group Costume if we shore up our weak link, which is clearly Leonard as Superman.

Leonard: Hey, I got new boots this year. Guaranteed to add three inches.
Sheldon: That’s sad. Let’s ask ourselves, is there anyone we know who would make a more manly and convincing son of Krypton?

Stuart: Than than Leonard in high-heeled boots? Howard’s mother in high-heeled boots?
Sheldon: I was thinking specifically of the gentleman over there moving his lips as he enjoys the latest exploits of Betty and Veronica.

Leonard: You can’t replace me with Zack.
Sheldon: Why not? Penny did it.

Zack: Score. I got an Archie, Betty and Veronica, and a Jughead. All set for my weekend number twos.
Sheldon: Congratulations. Zack, how would you like to be Superman?

Raj: I don’t want to be Aquaman. He sucks. He sucks underwater. He sucks fish pee.
Sheldon: Excuse me, I believe Aquaman uses his telepathic powers to request the fish do their business elsewhere.

Zack: We’re going to a costume party at the comic book store on New Year’s Eve, and you get to be Wonder Woman.
Sheldon: Complete with bulletproof bracelets and lasso of truth. Invisible plane sold separately.

Penny: Okay, what about your friend Amy?
Sheldon: Amy Farrah Fowler doesn’t believe in wearing costumes. She isn’t the free spirit I am.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: We’re going to be late. I’m pacing nervously.

Leonard: You’re jogging.
Sheldon: This is how the Flash paces.

Leonard; Just chill out, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I’m not Sheldon. I’m the Flash. And now I’m going to the Grand Canyon to scream in frustration. I’m back.

Howard: I’m Batman.
Sheldon: Oh, I hardly think so. The real caped crusader calls his crime-fighting cohorts when he’s running late.

Penny: All right. Let’s get this thing over with.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. But in what universe is Wonder Woman blonde?

Howard: Well, actually.
Sheldon: Don’t. He’s making our case.

Zack: Then who are you talking to? Babe?
Sheldon:  (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny, (Knock) Penny.

Penny: What the hell is wrong with you?
Sheldon: I’m the Flash. I just knocked 30,000 times.

Penny: Okay. What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: I understand why you’re upset.

Penny: Really?
Sheldon: Yes. You’re afraid that costume makes you look fat.

Penny: No. Wait, wait, does it?
Sheldon: Don’t worry. Wonder Woman was an Amazon. And Amazons tend to be very beefy gals.

Penny: Good-bye, Sheldon.
Sheldon: But they’re not blonde, so put on your wig. Hello?

Zack: I don’t know. Somebody bigger and, yeah, sure. Why not you?
Sheldon: I may have failed.

Raj: Oh, great. No Superman, no Wonder Woman? All we’ve got is a skinny Flash, an Indian Aquaman, a nearsighted Green Lantern, and a teeny, tiny Dark Knight.
Sheldon: Obviously, we’re no longer a Justice League. We have no choice but to switch to our Muppet Baby costumes.

Raj: Ooh, I call Kermit.
Sheldon: I’m Kermit. You’re Scooter.

Leonard: Okay, let me see if I understand this. You want me to convince my ex-girlfriend to go to a costume party with her new boyfriend just so we can win a stupid prize?
Sheldon: Yes. And make her wear the black wig. Good luck.

Howard (outside the door): Okay, the good news is, we have a Wonder Woman.
Sheldon: Oh.

Zack: Yes.
Sheldon: What’s the bad news?

Stuart: And the award for best group costume goes to Justice League of America number three!
Sheldon: Thank you! Thank you so much!

All: Ten, nine, eight…
Sheldon: No, wait! I have a speech.

All: Seven, six…
Sheldon: Stop counting!

All: Five, four, three…
Sheldon: This is my moment, dag nab it!

All: Two, one! Happy New Year!
Sheldon: I’m not going to say another word until you people settle down. I’m waiting.

Leonard: What should we do?
Sheldon: We’re the Justice League of America. There’s only one thing we can do. Turn around and slowly walk away.

Raj: That’s a Hanukkah present you’re regretting, huh?
Sheldon: I won’t say that all senior citizens who can’t master technology should be publicly flogged, but if we made an example of one or two, it might give the others incentive to try harder.

Leonard: I had a great idea. You know how we’re always having to stop and solve differential equations, like when you’re doing Fourier analysis, or using the Schrodinger equation?
Sheldon: Howard doesn’t. He’s only an engineer.

Raj: You know what’s a great app? The one that makes fart noises.
Sheldon: You know, Leonard, that’s actually a valid idea. Very good.

Leonard: Can you say that and not make it sound like I’m a cat who learned how to use the toilet?
Sheldon: No. The two achievements are equally surprising and equally admirable, though if pressed, I’d have to give a slight edge to the cat. I’ll save you the pain and nervousness of waiting for the answer. I agree to be part of your project. Congratulations.

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Oh!

Leonard: I checked the App Store. No one is doing handwriting-recognition differential equation solving.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord, shush.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: You have so few good ideas, Leonard. And you’re just going to spill the beans in front of an outsider?

Penny: Okay, stop, stop!
Sheldon: Of Texas.

Leonard: Satisfied?
Sheldon: Hardly. Consider this unlikely but very plausible scenario. A young woman alone in the big city. Her ridiculous dream of becoming an actress lies shattered about her.

Howard: Well, hang on. Let’s see where he’s going.
Sheldon: Then it hits her. How is she going to survive? I mean, she has no prospects, no marketable skills. And then one day, she meets a group of geniuses and their friend Howard.

Penny: Hang on. Let’s see where he’s going.
Sheldon: She befriends them, and then lies in wait until they reveal a marketable idea, which she steals and sells to the highest bidder.

Leonard: That is ridiculous.
Sheldon: Oh, is it? Well let’s see you come up with an explanation as to why this woman hangs out with us all the time.

Howard: There’s your answer, free food.
Sheldon: All right, I’ve taken the liberty of drafting these workflow charts which outline our various duties and the path we will follow as we develop our ground-breaking new app.

Raj: Hey, why am I in charge of phone support? Seems a bit racist.
Sheldon: A customer service representative with an Indian accent will create the impression we’re a vast enterprise that uses overseas call centres.

Raj: Oh. Very clever. But still racist.
Sheldon: Duly noted, Steve from Wichita.

Howard: Why am I listed as your executive assistant?
Sheldon: Because the word secretary has fallen into disrepute. FYI, my mother’s birthday is coming up. I’m going to need you to pick up a present.

Leonard: Okay, we need to stop for a minute.
Sheldon: Leonard, please, we can talk during our break. We have one coming up at midnight. We’ll need snacks.

Leonard: Sheldon, you’re not in charge. It’s my idea. I’m in charge.
Sheldon: Oh, of course you are. Look at the organizational chart. You’re clearly listed as founder.

Leonard: Well, yes, and you’re listed as Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Sheldon: You missed Chief Science Officer, Chairman of the Board, and Head of the Secret Santa Committee.

Raj: Ooh. Leonard’s going all alpha nerd on Sheldon’s ass.
Sheldon: All right. All right, I’m not going to argue with you. Sheldon Cooper is nothing if not a team player. Dr. Hofstadter, you have the conn.

Leonard: Thank you. I thought we might start by talking about the user interface.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord, we’re doomed.

Leonard: So this button here will allow you to scan a new equation, but over here, you can press this, and just substitute new values for the coefficients.
Sheldon: Good one, boss.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: This diagram. I assume you were opening with a joke. It certainly buoyed up this employee’s esprit de corps.

Leonard: It’s not a joke. It’s the real design.
Sheldon: In that case, may I offer 27 little tweaks to make it slightly less embarrassing?

Leonard: Sheldon, I think this will work. Let’s just try it my way.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m, I’m sorry. I assumed that you wanted candid truth-telling from your employees, but I realize now, you want the mindless nattering of complacent yes-men.

Leonard: Are you done?
Sheldon: If you say so, boss.

Howard: So right now, this button-press event is just triggering a dummy procedure call…
Sheldon: How about this for the app name? The Surprisingly Helpful Equation-Linked Differential Optimized Numerator.

Raj: So it spells Sheldon?
Sheldon: Does it? A happy accident.

Howard: Like I was saying, right now it’s just a dummy procedure, but eventually, it will drop us into…
Sheldon: All right, fine. If we’re not going to give it a name, can we at least give it a secret code designation?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Well, but hear me out. The atomic bomb was The Manhattan Project. Windows 95 was originally Project Chicago. For our app, I would humbly suggest Project Nodlehs.

Leonard: That’s just Sheldon backwards.
Sheldon: Another happy accident.

Leonard: We’re not wasting time with names right now.
Sheldon: I see. Is that decision open for discussion?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Is the decision to not discuss it open for discussion?

Howard: Again, right now it’s just a dummy procedure, but eventually, it will drop us into…
Sheldon: I call for a vote of no confidence and an immediate change in leadership.

Leonard: Oh Sheldon, stop it.
Sheldon: When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary to dissolve the bonds that tie three competent scientists together…

Leonard: That’s enough, Sheldon.
Sheldon: All right, let’s get right to the vote. Show of hands all those opposed to Leonard and his reign of tyranny.

Leonard: Okay, that’s it, you’re fired.
Sheldon: Really? Why?

Leonard: Because you’re impossible to work with.
Sheldon: I see. And is that open for discussion?

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: Oh. Good morning, shoemaker. I think you’ll be pleased with what the elves were up to last night.

Leonard: But I fired you.
Sheldon: Oh, I know. I’m now an independent contractor.

Leonard: No, you are now nothing. You have no connection to this project whatsoever.
Sheldon: But I made it better.

Leonard: I don’t want it better. I want it my way.
Sheldon: Well, that speaks volumes, doesn’t it? All right, I suppose I’ll go put on my bus pants.

Leonard: What the hell are bus pants?
Sheldon: They are pants one wears over one’s regular pants when one sits on bus seats that other people have previously sat on. But perhaps from your lofty heights atop the corporate ladder, you’ve lost touch with the struggles of the common man.

Leonard: Look, I’m still happy to drive you to work. Nothing’s changed in that regard. We’re still roommates, we’re still friends.
Sheldon: Except you identified me, your best friend, as a gangrenous limb that needed to be severed from the organism and tossed away. The desperate act of a little man with a big Napoleon complex.

Howard: It means after we play handball, I’m showering at home.
Sheldon: Good morning, Friend Howard. Friend Raj. I see you gentlemen are enjoying beverages. Perhaps they would taste better out of these.

Raj: World’s Greatest Astrophysicist?
Sheldon: Don’t thank me. You earned it.

Howard: Howard Wolowitz. Why not World’s Greatest Engineer?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I typed that into the label maker, but I just couldn’t press enter. Now down to business. What would it take for you to abandon Leonard and join me in a rival company? Unless, of course, the mugs are sufficient, in which case, welcome aboard.

Howard: We’re not quitting on Leonard.
Sheldon: I understand. And your loyalty is admirable. But what if I were to up the ante?

Raj: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: Monogrammed key chains with a built-in laser pointer. No? How about can cosies emblazoned with our university mascot? Go, Beavers. I’ll be back.

Raj: No. The moment has passed.
Sheldon: Greetings, gentlemen. How goes your little project?

Raj: You mean, Project Lenwoloppali?
Sheldon: Ah, a combination of all your names. Very clever. I assume Koothranardowitz was taken?

Leonard: We’re actually scanning equations and getting good results.
Sheldon: Oh, well then, by all means, carry on. I wouldn’t want to impede your progress.

Leonard: What are you doing?!
Sheldon: Playing the theremin.

Leonard: No. I mean, what are you doing with a theremin?
Sheldon: Playing it. I’ve loved the theremin from the first moment I heard the original Star Trek theme. And it’s been killing me that it just sits in my closet, gathering dust.

Leonard: Sheldon! We’re working here!
Sheldon: That’s all right. I can barely hear you over my theremin. (Leonard pulls out plug) Well, that was a little uncalled for.

Leonard: No, that was completely called for. We need quiet.
Sheldon: So, your project is more important than mine?

Leonard: Well, seeing as your project is to sabotage my project, yes.
Sheldon: Don’t beat around the bush, Leonard. If you don’t want me here, just say the word, and I’ll leave.

Scene: The hallway.
Sheldon: Could have beaten around the bush a little.

Penny: What you doing? Trying to contact your home planet?
Sheldon: I’m practicing my theremin.

Penny: Something got you down, there, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Leonard kicked me out of my own apartment. And his app team.

Penny: Oh, honey, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: He wouldn’t drive me to work today. I had to wear my bus pants.

Penny: Is that so?
Sheldon: Yes. And they’re still sticky.

Penny: Aw.
Sheldon: Probably going to have to throw them away.

Penny: Hey, you don’t need Leonard and his app. You can make one with me.
Sheldon: With you?

Penny: Seriously, I have a great idea for one.
Sheldon: Is it better than your idea to move to Los Angeles and become a famous actress?

Penny: Okay, look, when you see someone wearing shoes you like, you just snap a picture of them, and the app goes on the Internet to find out where you can buy them.
Sheldon: That’s your app idea?

Penny: Well, you don’t like it?
Sheldon: I didn’t say that. But no, I don’t.

Penny: Why not?
Sheldon: Oh, Penny, where do I begin? The simple-mindedness of your idea is exceeded only by its crass consumerism and banality.

Penny: And Leonard didn’t want to work with you? Imagine that.
Sheldon: I know, it’s baffling. (Singing) Nobody knows the trouble I’ve seen.

Penny: Sheldon, I’m gonna make some cocoa. Do you want some?
Sheldon: Do you make it with milk or water?

Penny: Milk.
Sheldon: Real cocoa?

Penny: That’s what it says on the packet.
Sheldon: Do you have those little marshmallows?

Penny: No, sorry.
Sheldon: Well, I suppose it’s appropriate.

Penny: What does that mean?
Sheldon: A disappointing drink for a disappointing day.

 
Sheldon: Really? Leonard wants me back?

Penny: Oh, yes. He says they are lost without you.
Sheldon: Well, we sure saw that coming.

Penny: That’s right.
Sheldon: You know what I’m going to do? I am going to sit here and just let them stew.

Penny: No, no, no. You know, they have suffered enough. Everybody’s suffered enough. The thing is, you’re going to have to offer him a face-saving way out of this.
Sheldon: How?

Penny: Say you’re sorry.
Sheldon: Oh, no. Mrs. Mary Cooper didn’t raise her no liars.

Penny: Okay. Um, how about this? You know how you’re always trying to learn about sarcasm?
Sheldon: No.

Penny: No?
Sheldon: I was being sarcastic.

Penny: Oh. Good for you. So all you have to do here is say you’re sorry to Leonard, but say it sarcastically.
Sheldon: Of course. He will hear it as an attempt to mend fences, as opposed to the withering condemnation you and I will know it to be.

Penny: Yeah. Yeah, that was my plan. All right. Come on. Let’s go.
Sheldon: Oh, by the way, thank you for the delicious cocoa.

Penny: Oh, you’re welcome.
Sheldon: Boy, I’m getting good at this.

Leonard: Okay, now that you’re back on the team, let’s get you caught up.
Sheldon: Before you begin, let me say again how deeply sorry I am for my earlier behaviour and how much I respect and admire your leadership.

Leonard: Thank you. So as you can see, not only can you store your favourite equations, but you can forward them to your friends or post them on Facebook right from the app.
Sheldon: Well, I must say, I am impressed.

Leonard: Thanks.
Sheldon: You all have clearly put in a lot of hard work.

Howard: We have.
Sheldon: As a result, you have taken the most important step on the road to success, learning what not to do. Now, let’s start fresh. Howard, we’re going to need some tea.

Penny: Okay, these are Uggs. These are Crocs. These are knockoff Manolo Blahniks.
Sheldon: Bored.

Penny: Look, you said it yourself, we have to create a database before you can write an alga-thingy.
Sheldon: Algorithm. You see, Penny, Alan Turing defined an algorithm…

Penny: Hey. So you guys ready to order?
Sheldon: Since we come in every Tuesday night at six o’clock and order the same exact thing, and it’s now six oh eight, I believe your question not only answers itself but also stands alongside such other nonsensical queries as who let the dogs out? and, uh, How are they hanging?

Penny: Oh, gee, Amy, I’m sorry, I’m actually pretty busy this weekend.
Sheldon: Probably serving food that was ordered today.

Penny: Boy, this is great. I haven’t had a vacation in ages.
Sheldon: In order to take a vacation, one first has to work.

Amy: That does seem to be a valid principle.
Sheldon: I trust Penny will adhere to the Official California Restaurant Workers’ Solemn Oath of Ethics and Cleanliness.”

Amy: I don’t believe there’s any such thing.
Sheldon: You lied to me?

 
Sheldon: Good morning. If I could have everyone’s attention, please? I know we’re all eager to get on the road to Big Sur, so if we focus, I’m sure we can get through this orientation in under a half an hour. Then it’s just Q&A, quiz, safety drills, pose for commemorative group photo and we’re off.

Leonard: Don’t worry. Just sit next to me during the quiz, and you can copy my answers.
Sheldon: Raj? What are you doing? I don’t think so. You’ve had your allotted six ounces. The first bathroom break isn’t until the Denny’s located near Bakersfield, which is approximately two and half hours away. Remember, people, we’re only as strong as our weakest bladder.

Howard (after Raj whispers to him): Nobody cares about your Kegel exercises.
Sheldon: All right. We have seven people, and two cars. In the lead car, driven by Leonard, will be myself, Amy Farrah Fowler and Penny.

Penny: Yay!
Sheldon: She made the case that if we break down in the middle of nowhere, your Nebraska backwoods skills and brawny hands will give us the best chance to survive in the wild.

Scene: Leonard’s car. 
Sheldon: Red Leader to Red Five, come in. Red Leader to Red Five, come in. Howard, you promised.

Howard (voice): Fine.  Red Five to Red Leader. What do you want now?
Sheldon: It’s eleven fifteen. I’m requesting your quarter-hourly location update.

Howard: Still right behind you.
Sheldon: Copy that, Red Five. Radio contact is sufficient. No need to extend your middle finger.

Amy: No, we discussed it. We decided we didn’t want to jeopardize our relationship by getting to know each other too well.
Sheldon: Indeed. Nothing sours a friendship more than over-familiarity with someone’s toilet routine.

Leonard: Are you an element in the actinoid series?
Sheldon: No. Amy?

Amy: Are you usually radioactive when found in nature?
Sheldon: No.

Amy: Are you in the lanthanoid series?
Sheldon: Amy, it’s Penny’s turn. Penny?

Penny: Uh, I don’t know. Are you food?
Sheldon: That’s not apropos. We’ve already established I’m found in the periodic table.

Penny: Well, it’s a table, right? I mean, why can’t there be food on it?
Sheldon: I knew she wasn’t lead car material.

Penny: Who elected you Road Trip God?
Sheldon: Leonard.

Leonard: It was a late-night vote. We were all exhausted, and he was threatening to filibuster. It’s not technically Road Trip God, it’s Travel Supervisor.
Sheldon: Although Road Trip God does have a certain ring to it.

Leonard: Good night.
Sheldon: Please tell me you’re not having coitus.

Penny: We are not having coitus.
Sheldon: Can you guarantee that it won’t happen at any time during the night?

Raj: Oh, my God, I’m crying already.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Raj? (Knock, knock, knock) Raj? (Knock, knock, knock) Raj? I need to sleep here tonight.

Raj: Why?
Sheldon: Howard is a complete and total ass, Bernadette is in Penny’s bed, Amy bites, and Penny may or may not have coitus with Leonard.

Scene: A conference room.
Sheldon: Good morning and welcome to Science and Society. I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper, BS, MS, MA, PhD, and ScD. OMG, right? Perhaps that joke was a little too hippie-dippy for this crowd. All right then, we’ll begin with opening remarks. Miss Rostenkowski, would you like to start us off by discussing your assessment of science’s responsibility to society?

Amy: Are we talking about women wanting penises? Because I’d like to weigh in.
Sheldon: Dr. Koothrappali, would you care to join the conversation?

Penny (voice): We weren’t getting back together! It was a one-time thing!
Sheldon: Excuse me. We’re not taking comments or questions from the audience just yet.

Penny(voice): Yeah, hi.
Sheldon: All right, why don’t we see if we can bring this back to topic.

Howard: Let me ask you something, Bernie.
Sheldon: I guess not.

Raj: I’d like to weigh in here. No.
Sheldon: All right, why don’t we open it up to Q&A from the audience?

Scene: Leonard’s car. 
Sheldon: Must be out of range.

Amy: Because we’re going 120 miles per hour.
Sheldon: All right, if no one’s going to guess, I was spying the aluminium rims on the police car we passed a few miles back.

Scene: A lecture hall.
Sheldon: Good evening. I’m your guest lecturer, Dr. Sheldon Cooper. I was expecting applause, but I suppose stunned silence is equally appropriate. I agreed to speak to you this evening, because I was told that you’re the best and the brightest of this university’s doctoral candidates. Hmm. Of course, that’s like saying you are the most important electron in a hydrogen atom. ‘Cause, you see, there’s only one electron in a hydrogen atom. Best and brightest, my sweet patootie. All right, let’s begin. Show of hands, who here is familiar with the concept of topological insulators? Don’t kid yourselves.

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Good evening, Leonard, Howard, Raj, freeloader.

Leonard: Really? Triumphant?
Sheldon: Oh, yes, you should have seen those young people. Thirsty for knowledge, drinking in my wisdom. I may have changed a few lives today.

Leonard: I don’t know, I kind of promised Howard.
Sheldon: Tell me what?

Howard: Actually, we should all share the moment. Raj, if you would.
Sheldon: Oh, tweets about my lecture. Hmm. That’s rather unfair. That’s downright cruel. Plus, insects have six legs. Yeah, I’m not familiar with the acronym KMN.

Leonard: Oh, uh, from the context, we think it means kill me now.
Sheldon: Well, I suppose everyone’s entitled to their own opinion. I think I’ll turn in. I didn’t want to teach those poopy heads, anyway.

Amy (on webcam, with an undersea background): So, what do you think?
Sheldon: It’s a charming illusion, but it does not cheer me up.

Amy: Not even when I do this? (Pretends to be a fish)
Sheldon: No.

Amy: Well, that was the last arrow in my quiver of whimsy.
Sheldon: Do you realize that teaching is the first thing I’ve failed at since my ill-fated attempt to complete a chin-up in March of 1989?

Amy: If this humiliating experience is really troubling you, there are things we could do about it.
Sheldon: For instance?

Amy: Well, the first thing that comes to mind is isolating the part of your brain where the memory is stored and destroying it with a laser.
Sheldon: Hmm, no. One slip of the hand, and suddenly I’m sitting in the Engineering Department, building doodads with Wolowitz.

Amy: All right. Have you considered improving your socialization skills, thus allowing you to communicate more effectively with other people?
Sheldon: Isn’t that their burden? I’m the one with something interesting to say.

Amy: Fair enough, but in its essence, teaching is a performance art. In the classroom paradigm, the teacher has the responsibility to communicate, as well as entertain and engage.
Sheldon: I sense that you’re trying to slow-walk me to an epiphany. Would you mind very much jumping to it?

Amy: Perhaps you should consider taking acting lessons.
Sheldon: Acting lessons. Interesting. It might help if I could act as though I care about my students and whether or not they learn.

Scene: Penny’s apartment door.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: You’re an (finger quotes) actress, correct?

Penny: I’m not an (finger quotes)actress. I’m an actress.
Sheldon: All right. You’re an actress. I need you to teach me.

Penny: You want an acting lesson?
Sheldon: Perhaps two. I’d like to master the craft.

Penny: Okay, where is this coming from?
Sheldon: It has been suggested to me that acting techniques could improve my lecturing, at which, if certain tweets and blogs are to be believed, I suck the big one.

Penny: Yeah, I saw those. They were funny. I printed a few out and put ’em on my fridge.
Sheldon: So, when could we start?

Penny: Okay, just to be clear. You are asking me for help because I know something that the brilliant Dr. Sheldon Cooper doesn’t.
Sheldon: I suppose that’s one way to look at it.

Penny: I think it’s the only way to look at it.
Sheldon: Are you going to help me or not?

Penny: Probably. I’m just enjoying the foreplay. Does this mean you are done mocking my acting career?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m sorry, I thought making the transition from actor to acting teacher was the signal that one’s career had reached the end of the road.

Penny: Forget it.
Sheldon: I’ll pay you 40 dollars.

Scene: Penny’s apartment. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: What’s wrong?
Sheldon: Nothing. I was acting.

Penny: You were acting?
Sheldon: Yes. In preparation for today’s studies, I read Stanislavski’s An Actor Prepares, Stella Adler’s

Penny: Well, good for you. Come on in.
Sheldon: How shall we begin?

Penny: Well, I thought we’d start with some basic movement exercises. You know, get our bodies warmed up a little.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: Come on, you got to work with me. We need to get connected with our bodies.
Sheldon: Penny, my body and I have a relationship that works best when we maintain a cool, wary distance from each other.

Penny: All right, let’s just say we’ve warmed up.
Sheldon: You’re the teacher.

Penny: Okay. One of the things that might help you in connecting with your students is being a little more spontaneous. So why don’t we try some improvisation?
Sheldon: Why not? It seems like you’re improvising your entire curriculum.

Penny: This is all about listening and responding.
Sheldon: Gotcha.

Penny: I’m going to create a character and a situation, and you just jump in when you feel it.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: All right.
Sheldon: Action.

Penny: Okay, it’s not a movie. It’s improv. So no one calls action.
Sheldon: Hey, you taught me something. Who would have thought it?

Penny: Okay. Uh, no, the shipment has not arrived, and I really need those shoes. They are my biggest seller. Yes, ladies sizes six through ten. Thank you. Oh, sorry, I have to go, I have a customer. Bye-bye. Hi. Can I help you?
Sheldon: I’d like a frozen yogurt, please.

Penny: Yogurt?
Sheldon: Yeah.

Penny: Um, okay, sure. Luckily, we sell both shoes and yogurt here.
Sheldon: You do?

Penny: Yes. Look up at the sign, and remember, improv is always about saying yes.
Sheldon: All right. Yes. I see a sign. It says Camarillo State Mental Hospital.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: It’s the only explanation I can come up with for why you think you sell shoes and yogurt.

Penny: Okay, you know what? Let’s just try a different improv. Uh, oh, this time we will be two winos living under a freeway overpass.
Sheldon: Oh, and we’re going to use props?

Penny: You bet. I had dreams, you know. I was gonna be famous. Show everybody back home I could be someone. Now look at me. Want some?
Sheldon: You have any frozen yogurt?

Penny: So, did you get a chance to go over the scene I gave you?
Sheldon: Yes. I didn’t care for it.

Penny: Okay, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof is an American classic.
Sheldon: So is the McRib sandwich. I don’t care for that, either.

Penny: Fine. What would you rather do as a scene study?
Sheldon: I’m glad you asked. I took the liberty of adapting a Star Trek fan fiction novella I wrote when I was ten into a one-act play.

Penny: And you think it’s better than Tennessee Williams?
Sheldon: Why don’t we leave that for future generations to decide?

Penny: Where No Sheldon Has Gone Before.
Sheldon: It’s the story of a young boy who is transported from the ignorant backwoods of East Texas to the 23rd Century, where his genius is not only appreciated, but celebrated.

Penny: KMN.
Sheldon: Now, in this pivotal scene, Sheldon’s mother, played by you, argues with an emissary of the United Federation of Planets, Mr. Spock, the role I will bring to life.

Penny: Okay, that’s fine, but let’s try and get you out of your comfort zone.
Sheldon: Why would we want to do that? It’s called the comfort zone for a reason.

Penny: Okay, the whole point of this is to loosen you up a little, so I’m thinking you’ll play the role of your mother, and I will bring life to Mr. Spock.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. You’ll be Spock?

Penny: It’s only logical.
Sheldon: Very well. I’ll set the scene.

Penny: All right.
Sheldon: East Texas. A warm summer night. A woman, Mary, stands on a porch. In the distance, we hear a lonesome train whistle. Woo-woo. The droning buzz of cicadas. Zzzzzzzzz. A coyote howls at the moon, frightening sensitive young boys everywhere. Aw-aw-aw! Out in the woods, an owl screeches.

Penny: Okay, okay. We get it. You set the scene.
Sheldon: Hoo!

Penny: Now just read your mother’s line.
Sheldon: Shelly! Shelly, how many times have I told you not to leave your sciencey stuff out on the porch? Goodness, I’ll never understand that boy. But then again, I’m a religious nut, and my mind is closed to so many things.

Penny: Woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo. Spock to Enterprise. Transport successful.
Sheldon: Glory be to Heaven, some sort of creature just manifested out of thin air. George, put down that Pepsi can full of bourbon that ain’t foolin’ no one, and get your shotgun!

Penny: Greetings, Mary Cooper. I am Spock.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I just don’t buy it.

Penny: Just keep going!
Sheldon: Oh, my, your sudden appearance startles me.

Penny: We have been monitoring your son Sheldon from the 23rd Century, and we have determined that he is now ready to join us. His unique genius is our best hope for bringing peace to a vast and troubled galaxy.
Sheldon: I understand. Oh, Shelly? A man’s here to take you away to the future! Be sure to pack clean underwear.”

Penny: Okay, okay, let’s try that last line again, and this time, maybe try choking up a little.
Sheldon: Why?

Penny: Well, you’re losing your son.
Sheldon: Yes, but he’s going to a better place where he won’t get beat up. So much.

Penny: All right, come on, just try it my way. Pretend you’re sad to see him go. I’m gonna lead you in. His unique genius is our best hope for bringing peace to a vast and troubled galaxy. That’s your cue.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I just love that line. Even the way you do it.

Penny: All right, come on, come on. Put some real emotion into it. Blah-blah, blah, blah, vast and troubled galaxy. Go.
Sheldon: Oh, Shelly? A man’s here to take you away to the future. Be sure to pack clean underwear.

Penny: That’s good. That’s good. That’s good.
Sheldon: Mommy, why are you crying? ‘Cause I’m gonna miss you, Shelly-bean, even though you creep the bejeezus out of me.

Penny: Okay, I guess we’re improvising now.
Sheldon: Well I’m sorry. It’s not my fault. I’m just incredibly smart, and everyone around here is dumber than a bag of rocks. Oh, now, don’t you start crying. You get in that spaceship. Mommy’s late for Indian bingo.

Penny (on phone): Mrs. Cooper, hey, it’s Penny. Yeah, I think I broke your son. Hey, hold on. Talk to your mother.
Sheldon: Mommy, I love you. Don’t let Spock take me to the future!

Howard: You take this one. I spent an hour last night on how do vampires shave when they can’t see themselves in the mirror?
Sheldon: Well-groomed vampires meet in pairs and shave each other. Case closed.

Howard: Why’s the president of the university slumming in the cafeteria?
Sheldon: Perhaps he’s emulating Shakespeare’s Henry V, who dressed as a commoner and mingled among them, to find out how he was being perceived by his subjects. Course, if he’d have read any of the thirteen hundred e-mails I’ve sent him on the subject of his administration, he could have saved himself the trouble.

Dr. Seibert: Hey, there’s my favorite geniuses! How are we doing today?
Sheldon: That depends, how much longer do you plan on fondling my shoulder?

Seibert: Sorry, Dr. Cooper, I forgot you have a touch phobia.
Sheldon: It’s not a touch phobia, it’s a germ phobia. If you’d like to go put on a pair of latex gloves,

Howard: I’m in!
Sheldon: Hold on. Just because the nice man is offering you candy, doesn’t mean you should jump into his windowless van. What’s the occasion?

Seibert: Just a little fund-raiser for the university.
Sheldon: Aha! The tear-stained air mattress in the back of the van.

Seibert: I understand your reticence, Dr. Cooper, and I sympathize, but the hard facts are, occasionally, we have to shake a few hands and kiss a few butts to raise money for our research.
Sheldon: I don’t care, it’s demeaning. And I refuse to be trotted out and shown off like a prize hog at the Texas State Fair. Which, by the way, is something you don’t want to attend wearing a Star Trek ensign’s uniform.

Seibert: So, Saturday night! It’s gonna be off the hook.
Sheldon: Ugh!

Howard: What about Sheldon?
Sheldon: Sheldon is not going.

Leonard: Really? What do we tell Siebert?
Sheldon: Tell him Dr. Cooper feels that the best use of his time is to employ his rare and precious mental faculties to tear the mask off nature and stare at the face of God.

Penny: Sheldon, it’s Saturday night, you’ll be doing laundry.
Sheldon: Don’t tell him that, tell him the mask thing.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: And so, instead of bowing to pressure, and going to that pointless soiree, I stayed right here and did a load of whites.

Amy (on webcam): Well, normally I respect your macho rebellious attitude toward The Man, but, in this case, I think you’ve made a foolish mistake.
Sheldon: Unlikely. But make your case. Keeping in mind that your critical attitude is ruining our Saturday night together, and I’m not above minimizing your window.

Amy: Sheldon, like it or not, until you manage to upload your intelligence into a self-sustaining orbiting satellite, equipped with high-speed Internet and a cloaking device, you will be dependent on other members of the human race.
Sheldon: That’s it. Prepare to be minimized.

I went to Saudi Arabia and met with a prince who had an interest in neurobiology.
Sheldon: Your lab is funded by some Middle-Eastern dilettante?

Amy: Technically, Faisal is my fiance. But I do have a state-of-the-art two-photon microscope and a place to stay in Riyadh for the winter.
Sheldon: Well, that explains those puzzling camel race photos on your Facebook page.

Amy: And consider this, without you to make the case for the physics department, the task will fall to people like Leonard and Rajesh.
Sheldon: Are you trying to scare me? ‘Cause you’re succeeding.

Amy: Well, then prepare to be terrified. If your friends are unconvincing, this year’s donations might go to, say, the geology department.
Sheldon: Oh, dear,not, not the dirt people!

Amy: Or worse, it could go to the liberal arts.
Sheldon: No!

Amy: Millions of dollars being showered on poets, literary theorists and students of gender studies.
Sheldon: Oh, the humanities!

Leonard: Hello, Mrs. Latham. Yes, I live with him. I don’t, I, I really don’t know why. Tonight? Sure, that’d be great. Okay, I’ll, I’ll see you then. Bye. She wants to have dinner and talk about my research.
Sheldon: An entire dinner to talk about your research? Where you going, the drive-thru at Jack in the Box?

Leonard: Well, wherever we’re going, she’s sending a car to pick me up.
Sheldon: Okay, I see what’s happening.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: My stature intimidates her, so she’s using you to get to me. Crafty old gal.

Leonard: Excuse me, but you are not the only distinguished scientist in this apartment. I’ve been published in peer-reviewed journals, I received a Dissertation of the Year award for experimental particle physics.
Sheldon: No, that can’t be it. And since you seem to have forgotten, the reason we live together is we’re best friends. And I got your back, Jack.

 
Sheldon: I’m sorry, so, eventually, zombies are going to attack the rehab facility where Sandra Bullock is?

Penny: Yes, Sheldon. Keep watching.
Sheldon: You know, it’s a shame, all that work she’s doing to get sober, only to be torn apart and eaten alive.

Leonard: Swell. I need a drink. Do we have any alcohol?
Sheldon: No. But we have potatoes, I could make you vodka. It’ll take two weeks.

Leonard: Well, Mrs. Latham said she was seriously considering donating money so we could get a cryogenic centrifugal pump.
Sheldon: Oh, wow!

Leonard: Then she stuck her tongue down my throat.
Sheldon: Why?

Leonard: I was able to get out of there before anything else happened, but she wants to see me again tomorrow night.
Sheldon: Excellent! What are you planning to wear?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Penny, you’re an expert on trading sexual favours for material gain, walk him through this.

Leonard: Well, n-no, hold on a second, I’m not going to sleep with her.
Sheldon: But we need a cryogenic centrifugal pump.

Leonard: Well, forget it! It’s not gonna happen.
Sheldon: Well, come now, Leonard, this may be your only chance to make a real contribution to science!

Penny: What was all that about me trading sexual favours for material gain?
Sheldon: It was a compliment. I believe in giving credit where credit is due.

Leonard: I won’t be too late. I’m just gonna make a final pitch for the funding and then say good night.
Sheldon: Hold on, I have something for you.

Leonard: What’s this?
Sheldon: Just a few things you may need tonight. There’s, uh, baby oil, condoms and, uh, a little something I procured from the school of pharmacology. They say it is to Viagra as Viagra is to a green M&M.

Leonard: I am not going to have sex with her.
Sheldon: Maybe this will overcome your reluctance. I went on the Internet and found a photograph of a 25-year-old Mrs. Latham to get your libido humming. Check out those saddle shoes. Rar!

Leonard: Are you insane? I’m not going to prostitute myself just so we can get some new equipment.
Sheldon: Oh, come on! Why not?

Leonard: Good night, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Given how much time you spend engaging in pointless self-abuse, you might consider, just this once, using your genitalia to actually accomplish something!

Penny: He still won’t shag the old lady, huh?
Sheldon: No. But thank you for asking.

Penny: Oh, please, I recognize the walk of shame when I see it. All you’re missing is a little smeared mascara and a purse with panties wadded up in it.
Sheldon: What’s going on?

Leonard: Oh, nothing’s going on. Excuse me.
Sheldon: Are you just getting home?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: That’s a good sign, right?

Penny: Oh, yeah.
Sheldon: I’m so proud of you! You sold yourself out like a common streetwalker!

Leonard: No, I didn’t do it for the money.
Sheldon: She stiffed you?

Penny: I believe that’s what your roommate did to her.
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: No, I mean, I, I, I got the money first.
Sheldon: Smart. Get paid up front. Yeah, I think you have a real knack for gigolo work, Leonard.

Leonard: Uh, I’m gonna go lie down.
Sheldon: That’s a good idea, get your rest. There are a lot more rich old ladies out there, and Daddy needs a new linear accelerator. And I thought he didn’t learn anything from his relationship with you.

Penny: Hey!
Sheldon: Another compliment! Learn to recognize them.

Howard: No, we agreed they all have their merits. This was about Bernadette.
Sheldon: What’s going on?

Leonard: Howard’s gonna sleep here tonight. He had a fight with his mother.
Sheldon: Did you offer him a hot beverage?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Leonard, social protocol states when a friend is upset, you offer them a hot beverage, such as tea.

Howard: Tea does sound nice.
Sheldon: You heard the man, Leonard. And while you’re at it, I’m upset that we have an unannounced houseguest, so make me cocoa. Point of inquiry, given that Leonard is your secondary friend and Koothrappali is your primary friend, why didn’t you seek refuge under his roof?

Leonard: Wait, wait. What?
Sheldon: Cocoa, Leonard. Focus. I’m down in the dumps here.

Leonard: Yeah, that’s a real pickle. Bye.
Sheldon: Don’t worry. As your tertiary friend, I am prepared to step in and comfort you.

Howard: That’s not really necessary.
Sheldon: No, no. I’ll finish making the tea, while you narcissistically ramble on about whatever’s troubling you.

Howard: Thanks.
Sheldon: That’s what tertiary friends are for.

Scene: The Cheesecake Factory.
Sheldon: Would you be sleeping over again this evening? Because you’re welcome to.

Howard: That’s very nice of you, but I made other plans.
Sheldon: Well, just keep in mind that should you ever need a slightly apathetic tertiary friend, I stand at the ready.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Priya: Listen, Rajesh, Leonard and I have decided to see each other again, and you don’t get to tell me who I can and can’t have a relationship with.
Sheldon: Actually, he can. The Hindu Code of Manu is very clear in these matters. If a woman’s father is not around, the duty of controlling her base desires falls to the closest male member of her family, in this case, Raj. The code also states that if she disobeys, she will be reborn in the womb of a jackal and tormented by diseases. If true, that seems like an awfully large gamble given that the prize is Leonard.

Penny: Oh, yeah, you, too.
Sheldon: Priya, if you’re experiencing any tension or awkwardness, it may stem from the fact that Leonard and Penny used to, if I may quote Howard, do the dance with no pants.

Penny: Ooh, I thought I smelled pizza.
Sheldon: That’s remarkable. If pepperoni were an explosive substance, you could replace German shepherds at our nation’s airports.

Penny: Oh, yes. Hi, hi. I’m sorry. I didn’t know you had company. I don’t want to impose.
Sheldon: No, no. It’s not an imposition. At this point, in our ecosystem, you are akin to the plover, a small scavenging bird that eats extra food from between the teeth of crocodiles. Please, fly into our open maw, and have at it.

Penny: Oh, yeah, yeah. It’s real great. Today I drove to Van Nuys for an audition I thought was going to be for a cat food commercial. Turned out to be porn.
Sheldon: Did you get the part?

Penny: I didn’t do the audition.
Sheldon: Given the state of your career, can you really afford to be picky?

Penny: I smell Chinese food.
Sheldon: It’s actually Thai. You’re slipping.

Penny: Are Leonard and Priya here?
Sheldon: They went to Catalina for the weekend.

Penny: Oh. Where’s Raj?
Sheldon: At home, forbidding it.

Penny: How about Howard?
Sheldon: I’m given to understand his mother grounded him for running away.

Penny: Oh, okay. Well, I guess it’s just the two of us, huh?
Sheldon: Actually, it’s the three of us.

Amy: Sheldon, you have a guest who’s upset.
Sheldon: Right. I’ll make tea.

Penny: Oh, sweetie, it’s okay. I don’t want tea.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. It’s not optional.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is on the phone.
Sheldon: Buona sera, Luigi’s Pizza. Buona sera. It means good evening in Italian. May I say, having to explain that to you calls into question the authenticity of your ristorante?

Leonard: Okay, I’m out of here.
Sheldon: Un momento. Oh, for heaven’s sake, now you’re being deliberately stupid. (to Leonard) Where are you going?

Leonard: I’m having dinner with Priya at Raj’s. I think Howard’s going to be there. You want to join us?
Sheldon: But tonight’s Thursday. On Thursdays, everybody comes over here and has pizza. Or a reasonable facsimile prepared by someone claiming to be Luigi, but who sounds suspiciously like Jackie Chan.

Leonard: Can’t we make a one-time exception for tonight?
Sheldon: We could. We could also stop using the letter M, but I think that idea is isguided and oronic.

Leonard: Just come with me to Raj’s.
Sheldon: Well, I don’t want to go to a party.

Leonard: It’s not a party. It’s the same group of people who hang out here, hanging out over there.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, but five people eating and chatting is a party.

Leonard: How come it’s not a party when we do it here?
Sheldon: Because we don’t throw parties.

Leonard: I don’t know what to tell you, Sheldon. I’m going to see Priya. Everyone’s over there. You coming or not?
Sheldon: Well, no, sir, and do you know why? In a word, tradition. Every Thursday night for the last eight years, you and I and our friends have gathered here in this very spot to break bread covered with cheese and sauce, discuss the issues of the day, and yes, share a laugh or two. But I guess our rich heritage means nothing to you.

Leonard: I guess you’re right. See you later.
Sheldon: Wait! Leonard! Wait! What am I going to do for dinner?

Leonard: Come with me to Raj’s and eat there.
Sheldon: I can’t do that. What if he serves haggis and blood pudding?

Leonard: I really doubt that’s what he’ll serve.
Sheldon: But what if he does? I’ll be obliged to dine on liver and lungs stuffed in a sheep’s stomach. And frankly, blood pudding is essentially the same thing. I don’t know why he’s serving both.

Leonard: What do you want to do? You want to come with me, or do you want to sit here alone?
Sheldon: No, I’ll go to your haggis party. But I’m telling you, this is adness. This is utter and coplete adness.

Credits sequence. 
Sheldon: Oh, dear!

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Raj’s television. I just realized we’re about to spend an evening watching a plasma screen with a cluster of dead pixels in the upper left-hand corner.

Leonard: So don’t watch TV. Read a book.
Sheldon: And be a social pariah? Oh, you know that’s not my style.

Leonard: Ugh!
Sheldon: The audible sigh is a show of exasperation, right?

Leonard: Right.
Sheldon: Is it about me or the dead pixels?

Leonard: Oh, sounds great.
Sheldon: Oh, Indians making Tex-Mex. Might as well have had the Chinese pizza.

Howard: That’s got to be fun for you, huh? Watching Hofstadter suck the saliva out of your sister’s mouth?
Sheldon: Excuse me. Before this evening goes any further, we need to decide where everyone is going to sit.

Priya: There is no assigned seats, Sheldon. Just sit anywhere. Make yourself comfortable.
Sheldon: Oh, what fun. We’re like hippies at a love-in.

Leonard: Just sit here.
Sheldon: Yeah, right on, man. Right on. Oh, look, it’s Harry Potter and 98% of The Sorcerer’s Stone.

Raj: Okay, we’ve got fajitas with all the fixins, so you make your own.
Sheldon: Wonderful. Dinner, some assembly required.

Priya: Do you want a margarita, Sheldon?
Sheldon: A margarita? Where are we? What is happening?

Penny: Oh. Hey, Sheldon. What can I get ya?
Sheldon: Water. Neat. With a little umbrella.

Penny: Where are all your friends?
Sheldon: Sadly, Penny, this evening, I am the Dark Knight, roaming these mean streets alone. A windbreaker for my cape, and a stern expression for my cowl.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: Excuse me? Isn’t this the point where the world-weary barkeep absentmindedly wipes down the bar and coaxes the woes out of the troubled patron?

Penny: Well, I was getting your stupid umbrella, but all right. What’s troubling you, buddy?
Sheldon: I don’t think your heart’s in it, but since you asked. Apparently, because Leonard is dating Raj’s sister, we’re all forced to hang out at his apartment.

Penny: Oh, the horror.
Sheldon: Indeed. Yeah, at one point, Raj put on reggae music, and his sister took off her shoes. It was like the last days of Caligula. (Phone rings) Oh, I have to get this. Umbrella?

Penny: Ugh!
Sheldon: Wonder what she’s exasperated about. Hello?

Amy (on phone): Sheldon, are you all right? When last we spoke, you were going to take a taxi home from Raj’s, but according to Facebook, you just checked in at the Cheesecake Factory.
Sheldon: Yes, I was in a taxi, but the driver didn’t look at all like the photograph on his license, so I leapt out and ran for it.

Penny: Yeah, it’s a great time to be alive, isn’t it?
Sheldon: Don’t worry. My problems can wait while you two hens finish your clucking.

Amy: Your flaring nostrils indicate otherwise.
Sheldon: Cluck-cluck-cluck.

Amy: Sheldon, look at me. I think it’s time to face the fact that Leonard is the nucleus of your social group. Where he goes, the group goes.
Sheldon: Leonard the nucleus? That makes no sense. I’m the whimsical elf that everyone looks to for a good time.

Leonard: What you doing?
Sheldon: I’m setting out snacks.

Leonard: You do realize everyone’s eating at Raj’s again tonight?
Sheldon: I didn’t say the snacks were for you now, did I, Nosy Rosie?

Leonard: You’re having people over?
Sheldon: Yes. Must be killing you wondering who. Fine, I’ll tell you. Stuart from the comic bookstore, Barry Kripke from the university, Penny’s ex-boyfriend Zack and TV’s LeVar Burton.

Leonard: Really? LeVar Burton’s coming here?
Sheldon: Possibly. I Tweeted him.

Leonard: Okay, well, tell him I loved him on Star Trek.
Sheldon: Please, Leonard, stop trying to horn in on my new friends.

Leonard: Of course. Good night.
Sheldon: Leonard.

Leonard: Yeah?
Sheldon: We had a good run, you and I.

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: But change is a part of life.

Leonard: It certainly is.
Sheldon: Okay. I have guests coming. I’m afraid I’m going to have to ask you to leave now.

Leonard: I am leaving.
Sheldon: Don’t make this harder than it is, Leonard.

Leonard: Good-bye, Sheldon.
Sheldon: And good-bye to you, sir. He’ll be back.

Scene: The apartment, later. 
Sheldon: Well, it would appear LeVar Burton won’t be joining us so let’s get started. Um, I thought we’d begin by going around the room, introducing ourselves and saying a little bit about why we’re here. Okay. I’m Sheldon. Uh, for regular readers of The New England Journal of High Energy Physics, I need no introduction. If you’re not familiar with that publication, there’s a free copy in your goody bag. Stuart?

Stuart: Um. Hi. I’m Stuart. I run a comic bookstore, which for financial reasons, I’m currently living in. And I guess what I’m hoping for most out of tonight is a hot shower.
Sheldon: That’s very nice, Stuart. Zack?

Zack: I’m Zack, and I’m, uh… uh… could you come back to me?
Sheldon: Of course. Barry?

Barry: I’m Barry Kwipke, and I’m here because you told me there was going to be a whaffle. When is the whaffle?
Sheldon: Patience, patience, Barry. The whaffle… the raffle is the grand finale to an evening-long festival of fun and folly.

Barry: One more question…
Sheldon: Yes, you must be present to win.

Zack: Anyway, after we get done snowboarding, I go back to the lodge and get in the Jacuzzi. There’s no one around, so naturally, I’m free-balling it. Next thing I know, this beautiful chick shows up, drunk out of her skull, wants to get in with me.
Sheldon: Question. Was it a Jacuzzi or a hot tub?

Zack: What’s the difference?
Sheldon: Jacuzzi is a commercial brand. Hot tub is the generic term, i.e., all Jacuzzis are hot tubs, but not all hot tubs are Jacuzzis.

Zack: Is that like all thumbs are fingers, but not all fingers are thumbs?
Sheldon: Surprisingly, yes.

Zack: Oh, yeah. Right. Anyway, she takes off all of her clothes, climbs into the hot tub, and the first thing I notice…
Sheldon: The water level rose.

Zack: No.
Sheldon: Of course it did. It’s said that Archimedes, the ancient Greek mathematician, discovered the principle of displacement while taking a bath.

Barry: Tewwific. Go ahead, Zack. Naked dwunk girl, fwee-balling, continue.
Sheldon: Forgive me, but I think you’ll find my story is more interesting.

Barry: Does yours have wet bweasts in it?
Sheldon: Better. It has a gold crown. You see, the king wondered how much gold was in it and charged Archimedes with coming up with the solution. Because the crown was irregularly shaped, there was no way to mathematically determine its volume. But, while bathing, Archimedes realized he could immerse the crown and measure the amount the water rose.

Zack: So, long story short, I nailed her.
Sheldon: When he finished, he shouted Eureka!

Zack: No, I always shout, Holy Moly! Don’t know why. Just do.
Sheldon: All right, that concludes the getting to know you portion of the evening. Who’s ready to play some vintage video games? And tonight’s selections include ColecoVision’s Smurf Rescue in Gargamel’s Castle, Atari’s Cookie Monster Munch, and for you text adventure aficionados, Zork. Pick me, pick me. I’m fun.

Barry: Check.
Sheldon: I’m unhappy.

Stuart: Anybody do Walking on Sunshine yet?
Sheldon: No.

Raj: Come on in.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Leonard: Hey. I thought you were with your new buddies.
Sheldon: I had to leave. They were having fun wrong.

Priya: Come here, Sheldon. Sit here with me.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Priya: Would you like some homemade chili?
Sheldon: Are there beans in it?

Priya: Yes.
Sheldon: Then it’s not chili. Real chili has no beans in it, but you’re from a foreign land, so your ignorance is forgiven.

Priya: Sheldon, do you want some or not?
Sheldon: Yes, please. Your girlfriend’s a little short-tempered.

All: Cheers.
Sheldon: Priya, do you know why this is called a toast?

Priya: Actually, I do. I believe the Romans used to put spiced toast in their punch bowls.
Sheldon: She’s also a bit of a know-it-all. Mmm. This is good. Whatever it is.

Howard: Hey, Raj, wanna see a new magic trick I’ve been working on?
Sheldon: Howard, if I may interject here with a piece of friendly advice. Is working on magic tricks really how you want to spend your time? Granted, you’re just an engineer, but that doesn’t mean you might not someday build a geegaw or a thingamabob that may get you a thank you in someone else’s Nobel prize acceptance speech.

Howard: Now remember your card, put it back in the deck.
Sheldon: Is it any wonder he doesn’t have a doctorate?

Raj: Yes, it is. Very cool!
Sheldon: It’s not cool. It’s a childish trick designed to confuse and intrigue simpletons. How’d you do it?

Howard: A magician never reveals his secrets. But surely a future Nobel prize winner can figure it out.
Sheldon: Fine. Give me a second.

Penny: Seven of clubs! That is amazing!
Sheldon: It’s not amazing. All magic tricks are merely a combination of manipulation and misdirection with the occasional dwarf in a box wiggling his feet.

Howard: Oh, really? So how did I do it?
Sheldon: Well, I don’t care how you did it. I have more important things to think about. Clearly, the cards are marked.

Howard: I thought you had more important things to think about.
Sheldon: I do. You just happen to have caught me on a break. Oh, let me see those cards.

Penny: Oh, big deal. Not knowing is part of the fun.
Sheldon: Not knowing is part of the fun. Was that the motto of your community college?

Penny: Oopsy.
Sheldon: This deck is rigged in some fashion.

Howard: Fine. Get another deck and I’ll do the trick with that.
Sheldon: So you’re saying this is a regulation deck?

Penny: Oh, unbelievable! Know how he did it yet?
Sheldon: Um…

Penny: Hey, I think I know how you did the card trick.
Sheldon: Oh, oh, please, if I don’t know, you don’t know. That’s axiomatic.

Leonard: Is the autumn cruel for letting the flowers die, or is that just nature’s way?
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I think I figured out Wolowitz’s magic trick, and I need you to pick a card.

Leonard: I am not opening that door, Sheldon.
Sheldon: As you wish. (Cards slide under door) Pick a card, put it back, and prepare to be amazed. (Leonard does not) Did you pick one?

Leonard: Yep.
Sheldon: (Sliding card under door) Is this your card?

Leonard: (Not looking) Nope.
Sheldon: Drat. Is this your card?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: I’ll be right back.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is alone.
Sheldon: Pick a card, Sheldon. Now look at it, and put it back in the deck. Now do you remember your card? Of course I do, I have an eidetic memory. My apologies. Now shuffle the cards. Shuffling. Wait here. Processing image, cross-referencing.

Leonard: Whatcha doin’?
Sheldon: I’m reverse engineering Wolowitz’s magic trick.

Leonard: What’s up with the infrared cameras?
Sheldon: I’m measuring residual heat levels on the playing cards to determine which one’s been touched. By the way, if you hope to have children, I suggest you switch from briefs to boxers. Your testicles look a tad warm.

Leonard: Holy crap, are you connected to the Oak Ridge National Laboratory?
Sheldon: Yes. I’m using their Cray Supercomputer to analyze shuffling patterns.

Leonard: Sheldon, that computer is used for National defence. Hacking into it is a Federal crime.
Sheldon: Relax, we’re not under attack right now.

Leonard: Okay, I’m leaving before the black helicopters get here.
Sheldon: And is this my card? Rats! I wonder if Howard used a radioactive tracer. Where am I going to find Uranium-235 this time of night? Come on, Craigslist.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Oh, I’ve been meaning to tell you, I figured out your magic trick.

Howard: Really?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. In fact, I improved upon it.

Raj: Beefaroni and a show? How do you turn that down?
Sheldon: All right. Pick a card.

Howard: Okay.
Sheldon: Bippity-boppity-boo.

Howard: What’s with the wand and the beep?
Sheldon: The wand is called showmanship, and the beep is none of your business. Oh! Excuse me, I’m getting a text message completely unrelated to this magic trick. Oh, look, my dry cleaning’s ready. And your card was the five of spades. Ta-da.

Raj: These cards have barcodes on them. The wand is a reader. It’s transmitting to your phone.
Sheldon: I said, ta-da. Show’s over.

Howard: Bippity-boppity-boo-yah!
Sheldon: That does it. I’m getting uranium.

Howard: Hey!
Sheldon: Hello.

Raj: Why so glum, chum?
Sheldon: Apparently, you can’t hack into a government supercomputer and then try to buy uranium without the Department of Homeland Security tattling to your mother.

Howard: Oh, that’s too bad. Figure out the magic trick yet?
Sheldon: Figure out the magic trick yet?

Howard: Want me to tell you how to do it?
Sheldon: No.

Howard: I’ll show you one more time. Raj?
Sheldon: Hang on. This time do it with me, so I can make sure there’s no monkey business.

Howard: All right. (Raj looks over Sheldon’s shoulder. Holds two fingers over his heart). Two of hearts.
Sheldon: I hate you.

Scene: The apartment
Sheldon: Why hast thou forsaken me, O deity whose existence I doubt?

Leonard: What’s going on?
Sheldon: They stole everything, Leonard, everything.

Leonard: Oh, my God, what did they get?
Sheldon: What didn’t they get? They got my enchanted weapons, my vicious gladiator armour, my wand of untainted power, and all my gold.

Leonard: You called the police because someone hacked your World of Warcraft account?
Sheldon: What choice did I have? The mighty Sheldor, level 85 blood elf, hero of the Eastern kingdoms, has been picked clean, like a carcass in the desert sun. Plus, the FBI hung up on me.

Policeman: Into the bag.
Sheldon: They took my battle ostrich.

Leonard: Oh, no, not Glenn?
Sheldon: Yes, Glenn! The only bird I ever loved.

Leonard: Thank you, officer.
Sheldon: Wait a minute! You’re not going to do anything?

Policeman: Mr. Cooper, there’s nothing…
Sheldon: Doctor Cooper.

Policeman: Fine. Dr. Cooper. I’m sorry for your loss, but the Pasadena Police Department doesn’t have jurisdiction in Pandora.
Sheldon: That’s from Avatar, World of Warcraft takes place in Azeroth. Goodness gracious, how are you allowed to carry a gun? Can you at least refer me to a rogue ex-cop?

Policeman: What?
Sheldon: You know, one who was drummed off the force because he refused to play by the rules, and now he hires himself out to impose his own brand of rough justice?

Leonard: Thank you, officer.
Sheldon: It’s all gone. All gone.

Leonard: I’m really sorry, Sheldon.
Sheldon: What kind of world do we live in, where a man would take another man’s battle ostrich?

Leonard: I don’t know.
Sheldon: This act of aggression must be met with swift and cruel ferocity. It is time to cry havoc, and let slip the dogs of war.

Leonard: I’m on it. (On phone) Hi, Mrs. Wolowitz. Is, is Howard there? Okay, thanks. That particular dog of war will have to call you back after his bath.
Sheldon: See if Raj is done with Pilates.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Three thousand hours. Three thousand hours clicking on that mouse, collecting weapons and gold. It’s almost as if it was a huge waste of time.

Howard: Whoever did this knew what they were doing. He got in and out of your account in under 15 minutes, transferred all your stuff, and didn’t leave a digital fingerprint.
Sheldon: Oh! There isn’t enough camomile tea in the world to quell the rage in my heart.

Raj: Hold on. I’m talking to an orc under the bridge in Thunder Bluff who says if we pay him, he’ll help us track down your things.
Sheldon: Can we trust him?

Howard: Whoa! Somebody’s auctioning off a jewelled ostrich bridle!
Sheldon: No. Glenn’s was leather. He was a simple ostrich. Is! Is, I haven’t given up hope.

Penny: Oh, I know. Bernadette told me. Sorry, Sheldon. I know that game meant a lot to you.
Sheldon: That game? Excuse me, Penny, but Doodle Jump is a game. Angry Birds is a game. World of Warcraft is a massively multi-player online role-playing… all right, technically it’s a game.

Penny: Okay, well, anyways, I brought you a day-old cheesecake to cheer you up!
Sheldon: Stale pastry is hollow succour to a man who is bereft of ostrich.

Penny: Just say thank you.
Sheldon: I thought I just did.

Howard: So, how do you guys want to play this?
Sheldon: Be ruthless. You tell him if he doesn’t start talking, we’ll register a complaint with his Internet service provider.

Raj: Sheldon, what if he gets his Internet from his cable company? He could lose his HBO and all their delightful original programming.
Sheldon: I don’t care! I’m losin’ it, man!

Leonard: Good, good. I’ll tell you what happens.
Sheldon: And people think I don’t get sarcasm.

Howard: Good news, gentlemen, I found our hacker.
Sheldon: What?

Howard: Yeah. No one can hide from me, not Waldo, not Carmen San Diego, not even topless Natalie Portman.
Sheldon: I’ve never said these words before, but good job, Howard!

Howard: Thanks. Our culprit is one Mr. Todd Zarnecki, 2711 Ocean View Road, Carlsbad, California.
Sheldon: The name and the address drip with evil.

Howard: Yes, he does live with his parents. Here’s a Google Earth shot of their house.
Sheldon: Excellent! It’s in a cul-de-sac. We can box him in.

Leonard: Hold on, you’re thinking of going there?
Sheldon: Carlsbad is only a couple of hours away.

Leonard: Fine. You walk up to the house, knock on the door and demand your stuff back. What if he says no?
Sheldon: I don’t know if you’ve been following the news, Leonard, but there have been some terrific advancements in the field of torture.

Leonard: No one’s getting tortured.
Sheldon: Fine, we’ll abide by the Geneva Convention. But ask yourself this, in the course of our lives, how much lunch money has been taken from us? How many kites? How many Scooby-Doo Trapper Keepers?

Raj: I totally had one of those.
Sheldon: Of course you did. It was a fun and practical way of organizing your school work. But the bullies took it from us. Well, no more. Tonight, we take back our dignity, our birthright and our pride. What do you say? Who’s with me?

Raj: I have a hip-hop aerobics class at five, could we go after?
Sheldon: Sure.

watching Wheel of Fortune, so If we could leave at eight, we’d still be able to regain our birthright at ten, ten thirty latest.
Sheldon: Fine. Leonard?

Howard: And me.
Sheldon: One moment. (Places a tissue on their hands before adding his own) I’m hell-bent on catching a cyber criminal, not the common cold.

Scene: Howard’s house
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I thought this delay was so you could watch Wheel of Fortune with your mother.

Howard’s Mother (off): Whoopi and Rube Goldberg!
Sheldon: That’s uncanny.

Raj: Hey, how about we stay the night and hit Legoland in the morning?
Sheldon: Sea World is better. It has Shamu, who is literally tons of fun. But for the moment, let’s stay focused on Todd Zarnecki.

Raj: Yeah, we’re coming for you, Todd Zarnecki. And for the record, Legoland is more interactive.
Sheldon: I almost feel sorry for the poor fool, sitting in his split-level suburban ranch, unaware that a vengeful horde is barrelling down the San Diego Freeway at 71 miles an hour. Ease up there, lead foot. You trying to get us killed?

Raj: I took the liberty of burning us a mix of heroic questing music.
Sheldon: This says Beyonce Bootylicious Dance Mix.

Leonard (as Ride of the Valkyries begins): Oh, yeah, I’m feeling it.
Sheldon: We are winged fury! Which is still no excuse for going over the posted speed limit.

Howard: Next time we go to kick someone’s ass, we take the train.
Sheldon: I always prefer the train.

Leonard: Sheldon, let’s go.
Sheldon: Coming.

Howard: Why did you bring that?
Sheldon: No weapon strikes more fear into a man’s heart than a Klingon bat’leth.

Leonard: Okay, let’s get clear on something. We’re just going to tell this guy to transfer all of your stuff back into your account and then be on our way. No one’s bat’lething anybody.
Sheldon: So my blade shall not taste blood tonight?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Well, now I just feel silly holding it.

Leonard: Come on.
Sheldon: Can I at least kick down the door?

Voice Inside: Who is it?
Sheldon: Your doom!

Raj: Don’t say your doom. Who opens the door for their doom?
Sheldon: Good point. Basket of puppies.

Leonard: Uh, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Are you Todd Zarnecki?

Todd: Yeah. Who are you?
Sheldon: I am Sheldor of Azeroth. I want my things back.

Todd: I don’t think so. Let me see that.
Sheldon: Careful. That’s a collectible.

Todd: I know. I’ve always wanted one. (Closes door)
Sheldon: Well, he’s even more cunning than we thought.

Scene: Leonard’s car.
Sheldon: You know, the joke’s on him. Without the certificate of authenticity, that bat’leth is worthless.

Leonard: Something’s wrong, I’m not getting any gas. Anybody know anything about internal combustion engines?
Sheldon: Of course.

Leonard: Does anybody know how to fix an internal combustion engine?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Well, we’d better call somebody to come pick us up.
Sheldon: It’d be swell if they had a train.

Scene: Penny’s car.
Sheldon: Thank you, Penny.

Penny: So did you at least get Sheldon’s fake stuff back?
Sheldon: No. We failed in our noble quest.

Penny: How come?
Sheldon: Todd Zarnecki was mean.

Todd: Okay.
Sheldon: We did it! I said, we.

Dr. Brian Greene: My new book, The Hidden Reality, takes on a grand question. Is our universe the only universe? You see, there’s a growing belief among scientists like me that ours may only be one among many universes populating a gigantic cosmos. In The Hidden Reality, I explore this possibility without presuming any knowledge of mathematics or physics on the part of the reader.
Sheldon: Hysterical.

Amy: I’m glad you talked me into this. We work so hard, sometimes, it’s nice to goof off and do something silly.
Sheldon: Agreed. Wait till you hear how he dumbs down Werner Heisenberg for the crowd. You may actually believe you’re in a comedy club.

Greene: You can think about Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle much like the special order menu that you find in certain Chinese restaurants, where you have dishes in column A and other dishes in column B, and if you order the first dish in column A, you can’t order the corresponding dish in column B. That’s sort of like the Uncertainly Principle.
Sheldon: Ba-dum-bump.

Amy: Say, I heard an interesting tidbit about Howard and Bernadette.
Sheldon: Really, Amy? Gossip? I’m disappointed in you.

Amy: Now, now. Evolutionary biologist Robin Dunbar has identified gossip as an aid to social bonding in large groups.
Sheldon: Forgive my language, but poppycock.

Amy: What if he’s right? And by not participating in gossip, society breaks down into small feral bands of tattooed motorcycle riders fighting to the death over the last few cans of tuna fish?
Sheldon: Fine. In the parlance of the urban music scene, what’s the 4-1-1?

Amy: Bernadette is thinking about breaking up with Howard.
Sheldon: I believe our nation’s tuna cans are safe. Excuse me. Dr. Greene, question?

Greene: Yes?
Sheldon: You’ve dedicated your life’s work to educating the general populace about complex scientific ideas.

Greene: Yes, in part.
Sheldon: Have you ever considered trying to do something useful? Perhaps, reading to the elderly?

Greene: Excuse me?
Sheldon: Yeah, but not your books. Something they might enjoy. I kid, of course. Big fan.

Leonard: Nice shot.
Sheldon: Thank you. My father taught me archery as a child. It’s odd how the activity brings back the smell of Kmart bourbon.

Leonard: Perfect.
Sheldon: I know. What an elf I would have made. Whoo, what do you think you’re doing?

Leonard: Shooting at a target?
Sheldon: With what?

Leonard: An arrow.
Sheldon: Really? I didn’t see you draw one from your quiver.

Leonard: I’m not going to do that, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Leonard, the people at Nintendo can only go so far in helping us recreate an actual athletic experience. We have to do our part, too. (Leonard mimes drawing an arrow and stabbing Sheldon with it.) That was uncalled for, but I’ll play along. Ow! I had an unusual experience with Amy last night.

Leonard: Really? How could you tell?
Sheldon: She was attempting to engage me in gossip.

Leonard: You don’t say?
Sheldon: Yes. I think prolonged exposure to Penny has turned her into a bit of a Gabby Gertie.

Leonard: So, what’s the gossip?
Sheldon: Oh, please, I was just pointing it out. I have no desire to engage in the activity.

Leonard: Fine, don’t tell me.
Sheldon: All right, get this. Bernadette is thinking about breaking up with Howard.

Leonard: Oh. That’s too bad. I wonder what happened.
Sheldon: Mm, it’s hard to say. I can only speculate based on the data I collected watching my parents’ marriage implode. In that case, the woman dives into religion, while the man dives into a bottle-blonde bartender who tries to buy my love with action figures. Oop! Out of arrows.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: I’ve been thinking about Dr. Greene’s efforts to make science palatable for the masses.

Leonard: Oh, yeah? What about it?
Sheldon: That’s all. I’ve just been thinking about it. Now, I’m thinking about fractal equations. Now I’m thinking about the origin of the phrase train of thought. Now I’m thinking about trains.

Leonard: Lucky bastard.
Sheldon: Now I’m thinking about Jell-O.

Raj: I know. It’ll be awful.
Sheldon: Why are you smiling?

Raj: Uh, a smile means something different in my country. You know, tears of joy, smile of sadness. India’s a goofy place.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m back to trains. Woo-woo.

Amy: Did I tell you our lab got a grant to study addiction?
Sheldon: No.

Amy: Fascinating work. I recently trained a capuchin monkey to smoke cigarettes.
Sheldon: Have you learned anything?

Amy: Yes. He looks much cooler than the non-smoking monkeys. Although it’s not much of a contest. The other monkeys just sit around and masturbate.
Sheldon: If you don’t mind, I’d like to stop listening to you and start talking.

Amy: By all means.
Sheldon: Howard has announced his intention to propose marriage to Bernadette.

Amy: I don’t understand. The original piece of gossip indicated an impending breakup.
Sheldon: I know. The group consensus is that his proposal will be met with an humiliating, soul-crushing rejection. Everyone was set a-twitter. Although oddly, no one tweeted.

Amy: It’s not surprising that the story has captured the attention of our little circle of friends. Are you familiar with meme theory?
Sheldon: I’m familiar with everything, but go on.

Amy: Meme theory suggests that items of gossip are like living things that seek to reproduce using humans as their host.
Sheldon: I’m no stranger to memetic epidemiology. At Johnson Elementary School, the phrase Shelly Cooper’s a smelly pooper spread like wildfire.

Amy: I should think so. That’s gold.
Sheldon: Your meme hypothesis does intrigue me. How might we examine this more closely?

Amy: Do you have any ethical qualms regarding human experimentation?
Sheldon: It’s one of the few forms of interaction with people that I don’t find repellent.

Amy: We need to fabricate a tantalizing piece of gossip.
Sheldon: And a second non-tantalizing piece to use as a control.

Amy: Then we’ll track its progress through our social group and interpret the results through the competing academic prisms of memetic theory, algebraic gossip and epidemiology.
Sheldon: Look at you, getting me to engage in the social sciences. You’re a vixen, Amy Farrah Fowler.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hey.

Leonard: Hope you’re hungry.
Sheldon: Interesting. A friendly sentiment in this country, cruel taunt in the Sudan. It’s a lesson in context.

Leonard: Will Amy be joining us for dinner?
Sheldon: Yes, I believe so.

Leonard: Good, good. Everything okay between you two?
Sheldon: Yes. Why do you ask?

Leonard: No reason. I was just talking to Raj, and he mentioned what a lovely glow she has these days.
Sheldon: Did he mean as if she’d been out in the sun, tending an herb garden without wearing a hat or sunblock?

Leonard: No. That’s not what he meant.
Sheldon: Well, we may never know. As my mother would say, the Asians are an inscrutable folk. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have work to do.

Leonard: Yeah, you do. You dog, you.
Sheldon: Did you get that?

Amy (on webcam): Every word. Our false gossip meme appears to have reached node lambda.
Sheldon: This is moving faster than we thought.

Amy: Agreed. It appears the rate of gossip transmission is proportional to the number of nodes squared.
Sheldon: I must say, Amy, pretending to have intercourse with you is giving me a great deal of satisfaction.

Amy: Bernadette just asked about my sexual encounter with you. The meme has reached full penetration.
Sheldon: Pun intended?

Amy: No. Happy accident.
Sheldon: This is remarkable. Took less than 24 hours.

Amy: I should let you know that she asked for details about our dalliance.
Sheldon: Interesting. So it went beyond the mere fact of coitus to a blow by blow, as it were.

Amy: Pun intended?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. What pun?

Amy: Not important. I described your lovemaking as aloof, but effective.
Sheldon: I wish you hadn’t done that. That’s going to make me a chick magnet, and I’m so busy as it is.

Amy: I wonder what changed her mind.
Sheldon: Perhaps your talk of my sexual prowess renewed her faith in love.

Scene: The bathroom
Sheldon: Leonard, are you in the shower?

Leonard: I can’t hear you, I’m in the shower.
Sheldon: I asked if you were in the shower, but that’s moot now.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Moot. Rendered unimportant by recent events.

Leonard: I can’t hear you, I’m in the shower.
Sheldon: I have to skip the chitchat. Emergency.

Leonard: What kind of emergency?
Sheldon: Mathematical. 32-ounce banana smoothie, 16-ounce bladder.

Leonard: You might not want to do that.
Sheldon: I assure you I do.

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m not alone in here.
Sheldon: What?

Priya: Hello, Sheldon.
Sheldon: What are you doing in there? She can’t be in here.

Leonard: We were in here first, you can’t be in here.
Sheldon: According to the roommate agreement, paragraph nine, subsection B, the right to bathroom privacy is suspended in the event of force majeure. And believe me, I am experiencing a very majeure force.

 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Move. Move. Move!

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Dr. Leonard Hofstadter, you are officially charged with two violations of the roommate agreement. Do you waive reading of the charges?

Priya: Proceed.
Sheldon: Very well. Count the first, on or about the 28th day of April, the accused did knowingly and with malice aforethought deny access to the shared bathroom in a time of emergency, to wit, my back teeth were floating. Count the second, the accused exceeded the agreed upon occupancy of the shower, to wit, one, unless we are under attack by water-soluble aliens.

Priya: Can I see the roommate agreement?
Sheldon: Um, it’s fairly technical.

Priya: All right, based on a cursory reading, it doesn’t look like you have much of a case, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Do so, do so.

Priya: Oh, I’m afraid not. Section seven here, on the right to enter the bathroom in emergency situations, is not specific as to what constitutes an emergency.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s ridiculous. A bathroom emergency is self-explanatory.

Priya: Is it? If Leonard forgot to trim his nose hair, could he barge in while you were showering?
Sheldon: Irrelevant. Leonard doesn’t trim his nose hair. He thinks because he’s short nobody can see up there.

Priya: My point is, Sheldon, the legal principle is ambiguity in a contract benefits the party that did not draft it, in this case, Leonard. So much for count one.
Sheldon: But…

Leonard: Superceded!
Sheldon: This isn’t over.

Howard (in Stephen Hawking voice): I wish to discuss your theories of black holes. Meet me at the Randy’s Donut by the airport at 2:00 a.m.
Sheldon: What is that you’re eating? Tonight is pizza night.

Priya: According to what I see here, Thursday nights are Franconi’s pizza night.
Sheldon: Yes, and when Franconi’s went out of business, we switched to Graziano’s.

Priya: A good question, Howard. Turns out you can’t. According to the document you drew up, Sheldon, the selection of a new takeout restaurant requires public hearings and a 60-day comment period. Were those criteria met?
Sheldon: No.

All: Opa!
Sheldon: This is Greek food? Leonard, you hate Greek food.

Leonard: Not as much as you.
Sheldon: Fine. I’m nothing if not adaptable.

Leonard: I got you the lamb kabob.
Sheldon: Thank you. If you think about it, Greek food isn’t that far from italian food. They share a spice palette. And what a civilization is the Greeks. They gave us science, democracy, and little cubes of charred meat that taste like sweat.

Scene: Penny’s door. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny?

Penny: Hey. What’s up?
Sheldon: The mean Indian lady tried to make me eat lamb. Congratulations. Pizza night will now be at your apartment. Order one.

Penny: Oh, I’m sorry, honey, I’m meeting Amy and Bernadette for dinner. But you’re welcome to tag along.
Sheldon: A girls night? Oh, I don’t know if I’m up for an evening talking about rainbows, unicorns and menstrual cramps.

Penny: Okay, suit yourself. We’ll probably be trashing Priya a little.
Sheldon: Shotgun.

Bernadette: Yeah. Last week we smoked cigars and pretended to be dragons.
Sheldon: Really, Amy? Tobacco and alcohol? Need I remind you not a lot of scientific discoveries were made by people having a good time?

Amy: You smell like baby powder.
Sheldon: It’s talc. But as that’s a primary ingredient of baby powder, I understand your confusion.

Amy: Oh, I’m not confused at all. You’re like a sexy toddler.
Sheldon: I don’t know how to process that.

Penny: Sheldon, have you ever kissed a girl?
Sheldon: Other than my mother, my sister and my mee-maw, no. But in the interest of full disclosure, I was once on a bus and had to give mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to an elderly nun who passed out from heat exhaustion. Every year I get a Christmas card from her, signed with far too many X’s and O’s.

Amy: I’m available for experimentation.
Sheldon: Thank you. Not necessary. We know everything there is to know about kissing. It requires 34 facial muscles and 112 postural muscles.

Amy: Oh, blah, blah, blah. Give me some sugar, bestie (kisses Penny).
Sheldon: I’m certainly glad no one said they were curious about Aztec human sacrifice.

Bernadette: Oh, I totally want to see Sheldon dance. I bet he looks like a spider on a hot plate.
Sheldon: No, thank you, but for the record, I’m an excellent dancer. Proficient in the rumba, waltz and cha-cha.

Amy: Really?
Sheldon: I don’t see why that’s surprising. I excel at so many things. You’ve had my sourdough bread.

Penny: Did you take dance lessons?
Sheldon: Against my will. In the South, pre-adolescent children are forced through a process called cotillion, which indoctrinates them with all the social graces and dance skills needed to function in 18th century Vienna.

Penny: Oh, we are so taking you dancing.
Sheldon: No, you most certainly are not.

Bernadette: Well, what does your cotillion training say is expected of a gentleman when three ladies ask him to escort them to a dance soiree?
Sheldon: I saved a nun’s life. Why am I being punished?

Taxi driver: Where you can what?
Sheldon: Waltz. It’s a social dance from Austria, choreographed to a three-four time signature. (Sings Blue Danube. The taxi driver says something into radio in Korean. The word “waltz” is included. Dispatcher replies also in Korean. Taxi driver sings Blue Danube. Dispatcher says “oh, waltz!” They speak Korean some more. )

Amy (singing): I kissed a girl and I liked it, I hope my boyfriend don’t mind it.
Sheldon: What happened to you?

Amy: How come if we’re the smart people, we don’t do this every night?
Sheldon: What’s 16 times 14?

Amy: My burps taste like cranberry juice.
Sheldon: And there’s your answer.

Amy: Would you like to come in for a nightcap?
Sheldon: If you’re referring to the beverage, you know I don’t drink. If you’re referring to the hat you don while wearing a nightshirt and holding a candle, I have one.

Amy: I have yoo-hoo.
Sheldon: It’s hard to say no to yoo-hoo. The name literally beckons.

Amy: Make yourself comfortable.
Sheldon: Thank you. Is someone smoking?

Amy: Oh, that’s just Ricky.
Sheldon: You own a smoking monkey?

Amy: Don’t be silly. He’s one of the animals in my department’s nicotine addiction study.
Sheldon: What’s he doing here?

Amy: I’m giving him emphysema. The least I can do is let him hang out and watch cable.
Sheldon: Remarkable. Aren’t you worried about secondhand smoke?

Amy: A little. The real danger is him biting my face off while I’m sleeping.
Sheldon: is he deliberately blowing smoke at me?

Amy: Yeah. He’s kind of an ass.
Sheldon: Thank you. May I share something with you that’s troubling me?

Amy: Of course. What’s rattling around that big bulbous brain of yours?
Sheldon: Priya has essentially nullified my roommate agreement with Leonard, making life in the apartment very uncomfortable for me.

Amy: And you want me to kill her? Done.
Sheldon: No, of course not.

Amy: I trained Ricky how to smoke. I can train him to shoot a poison dart. No jury would convict us ’cause people love monkeys.
Sheldon: I understand the alcohol has stirred up whatever it is that makes girls go wild, but I really need to talk to smart Amy now.

Amy: Excuse me. Have you considered that your intelligence might be the very thing causing your dilemma?
Sheldon: No.

Amy: What do you think Ricky over here would do if an interloper encroached on his territory?
Sheldon: Well, when challenged, monkeys generally assert their dominance through chasing, assault and a stylized penile display. That’s a little outside my comfort zone.

Amy: You’re being too literal. My point is, he would not meekly surrender to the rules, and neither should you.
Sheldon: Are you suggesting I play dirty?

Amy: Yes, dirty. Dirty, dirty, dirty. Which brings me to our next order of business. (Kisses him)
Sheldon: Fascinating.

Leonard: Morning, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, good, you’re up. I’ve written a new and improved roommate agreement that benefits me greatly. I’d like you to sign it.

Leonard: Why would I want to do that?
Sheldon: Excellent question. Do you remember what happened to the alien, played by talented character actor Frank Gorshin, in the Star Trek episode Let That Be Your Last Battlefield?

Leonard: Uh, Captain Kirk activated the self-destruct sequence and threatened to blow up the Enterpriseand kill them both unless he gave in?
Sheldon: Affirmative. Computer, this is Dr. Sheldon Cooper. Activate self-destruct sequence. Code 1-1-A-2-B.

Leonard: What are you gonna do, Sheldon, blow up the apartment?
Sheldon: That was my first thought, but all my cool stuff is here.

Priya: So what happens when it counts down?
Sheldon: Unless Leonard signs the new agreement in the next 41 seconds, this computer will send an e-mail to your parents in India saying that you’re in a secret relationship with the whiter-than-marshmallow-fluff Leonard Hofstadter.

Priya: Yeah, of course, just not today.
Sheldon: 20 seconds.

Priya: Please, don’t push this.
Sheldon: He does that all the time, doesn’t he? 15.

Leonard: No, he’s bluffing.
Sheldon: I never bluff. Ten.

Leonard: It’s blackmail!
Sheldon: Nine.

Priya: We give up.
Sheldon: Eight.

Leonard: This is ridiculous. (Pulls out plug)
Sheldon: It’s a laptop with a full charge. Honestly, what do you see in him?

Priya: Give him what he wants or we’re done.
Sheldon: Three.

Leonard: Really?
Sheldon: Two.

Female Voice: Self-destruct sequence aborted.
Sheldon: You may have gone to Cambridge, but I’m an honorary graduate of Starfleet academy.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is at his laptop. 
Sheldon: Good morning, Amy.

Amy: It most assuredly is not.
Sheldon: Are you experiencing dehydration, headache, nausea and shame?

Amy: Yes. I also found a Korean man’s business card tucked into my cleavage. What happened last night?
Sheldon: Ah, memory impairment, the free prize at the bottom of every vodka bottle.

Amy: Sheldon?
Sheldon: All right. Last night you gave me some excellent advice regarding my problem here at home, you kissed me and then vomited on and off for 40 minutes, following which you passed out on your bathroom floor. I then folded a towel under your head as a pillow, set your oven clock to the correct time because it was driving me crazy, and I left.

Amy: Okay. Don’t really know where we go from here.
Sheldon: I suggest we treat our relationship as if it were a crashed computer and restore it to the last point we both agree it worked.

Leonard (off): Come on, Priya, just admit I embarrass you!
Sheldon: You’re preaching to the choir, sister.

Leonard: Okay, see you later.
Sheldon: Good news. I finally have a handle on my idea for three-person chess.

Leonard: That is good news. Bye.
Sheldon: Uh, do you know how I solved the balanced centre combat-area problem? Five words, transitional quadrilateral to triangular tessellation.

Leonard: That, that’s brilliant.
Sheldon: It’s what I do. But wait, there’s more. I also invented two new chess pieces. The serpent, and the old woman.

Leonard: Okay, now I have to ask. What do they do?
Sheldon: When the serpent slithers to an opposing player’s piece, that piece is considered poisoned and will die after two more moves. Ugh.

Leonard: All right.
Sheldon: Unless, it gets to the old woman in time, in which case she sucks out the poison, turning her into the Grand Empress, a piece combining the power of the knight, queen and serpent.

Leonard: Elegant.
Sheldon: That’s because it’s simple.

Leonard: Okay, well, I look forward to playing with you.
Sheldon: And…

Leonard: And what?
Sheldon: And a third person. It’s three-person chess. I must say, ever since you started having regular intercourse, your mind has lost its keen edge. You should reflect on that.

Leonard: Excuse me, but Einstein had a pretty busy sex life.
Sheldon: Yes, and he never unified gravity with the other forces. If he hadn’t been such a hound dog, we’d all have time machines.

Leonard: Got it. Bye.
Sheldon: You know I’m right.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is playing three person chess by himself. 
Sheldon: Knight to old woman six-and-a-third. Brilliant move. Thank you. (Knock on door) Will the two of you excuse me?

Raj: I need a hug.
Sheldon: Sorry, I have company.

Raj: Come on, Sheldon, open the door.
Sheldon: I don’t want to hug you.

Raj: I don’t want to hug you, either. I was just feeling blue.
Sheldon: Blue, as in depressed.

Raj: Well, not so much depressed as lonely.
Sheldon: I don’t know what colour lonely is.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: Red is angry, yellow is frightened, green is jealous and blue is depressed. Perhaps we can assign a colour to lonely.

Raj: Nothing rhymes with orange. It’s probably lonely.
Sheldon: All right. Come in. You look positively orange with loneliness. No, I don’t see that catching on at all.

Raj: What are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m working on my three-person chess game.

Raj: Oh, cool. Can I play?
Sheldon: It’s three-person chess. Did you bring a friend?

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Then as a mental exercise I invite you to figure out why the two of us can’t play three-person chess. Can you believe this guy? Social protocol does, however, require me to bring you a hot beverage in your time of need.

Raj: No, thank you. I’m fine.
Sheldon: It’s not optional. We’re out of tea. I hope you like bouillon.

Raj: I, uh, I guess you’re probably wondering what’s got me down.
Sheldon: Actually, I was wondering if I could add a third new chess piece. How do you think people would feel about Prince Joey, the king’s feeble-minded but well-meaning cousin?

Raj: I’m going to be 30 years old, and I have no one in my life to love me. I’m such a basket case, I can’t even talk to a woman without having alcohol in my body.
Sheldon: The fun thing about Prince Joey is every time he moves, there’s a one-in-five chance he’ll kill himself.

Raj: Sheldon, listen to me. I have a big decision to make, and I’m scared.
Sheldon: Yellow. Go ahead.

Raj: A friend at the School of Pharmacology gave me these new pills they’re testing. He says it’s the next big thing for social anxiety disorder.
Sheldon: Fascinating. What’s in it?

Raj: I’m not sure. Some sort of beta-blocker attached to a molecule extracted from the urine of cows.
Sheldon: I like cows.

Raj: That’s not the point.
Sheldon: It was its own point. Go on.

Raj: I’m a scientist. My ability to think is my bread and butter. I’m afraid if I take this, I might lose that special, unique something that makes me so successful in my field.
Sheldon: Rajesh, I’ve had the privilege of working alongside you for many years. My recommendation is that you gobble these up like Tic Tacs.

Raj: Thank you for coming with me, Sheldon. You’re a good friend.
Sheldon: I’m glad you think so. That’s what I strive to emulate.

Woman: Hi.
Sheldon: Oh, there’s no need to interact with me. I’m just here to observe.

Raj: We’re scientists. We observe everything. Here, go buy yourself a scone.
Sheldon: All right.

Angela: You’re cute.
Sheldon: I’d like to buy a scone.

Server: Oh, I’m sorry, we’re out. We have muffins.
Sheldon: They sound delicious, but this money is earmarked for scones.

Angela: I…
Sheldon: They were out of scones.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon, Leonard and Howard are playing three person chess. 
Sheldon: My catapult flings my bishop to Howard’s Queen’s Gorilla two.

Leonard: Hang on. When is my pawn allowed to use the golf cart?
Sheldon: When it’s done charging. Or you land on the time machine. Obviously.

Leonard: Oh, oh, Beekeeper to King 12. I capture your Pope and release the swarm. Checkmate on Sheldon.
Sheldon: I knew I should have given my Pope the jet pack.

Leonard: Uh, that’s my water.
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: My water. You’re drinking it.
Sheldon: Dear Lord! Have you been drinking it?

Leonard: Yes. It’s my water.
Sheldon: Well, that’s it then. I’m dead.

Leonard: Here we go.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, do I really need to connect the dots for you? The backwash into this glass is every pathogen that calls your mouth home, sweet home. Not to mention the visitors who arrive on the dancing tongue of your subtropical girlfriend.

Bernadette: You guys ready to order?
Sheldon: Yes, I’d like a seven-day course of penicillin, some, uh, syrup of ipecac, to induce vomiting, and a mint.

Howard: He drank from Leonard’s glass.
Sheldon: He drank from Leonard’s glass. Words they’ll be carving into my tombstone.

Leonard: That’s actually my napkin.
Sheldon: Oh, this is a nightmare!

Howard: Where are you going?
Sheldon: To the bar, to sterilize my mouth with alcohol. Gang way! Dead man walking!

Howard: Right, right, whereas Jewish mothers take a casual, la-di-da approach to their sons.
Sheldon: I gargled with tequila and may have swallowed a teeny bit.

Leonard: You all right?
Sheldon: Fine. Thank you for asking. I love you so much.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Fire demon.

Raj: Oh, yeah, she’s got puddles in all the right places.
Sheldon: Could you please play the game without commenting on every card?

Raj: Sorry. Walking tree.
Sheldon: Last one.

Raj: Sheldon, that’s my water.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord!

Raj: I know.
Sheldon: Where’s the mouthwash?

Penny: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: Haven’t seen you in a while. How’s it going?
Sheldon: Oh, other than waiting out the exponential growth period of the virulent organisms trooping through my microvilli into my circulatory system, hunky-dory. (Penny laughs) Did I say something amusing?

Penny: I don’t know, maybe, I have no idea what you said.
Sheldon: So your mirth is merely a discharge of nervous energy with no semantic content at all?

Penny: My mirth. Classic.
Sheldon: Is there a station coming up where I can board your giggling train of thought?

Penny: It’s not a big deal, Sheldon. It’s just, ever since Leonard’s been dating Raj’s sister, I’ve had to keep my distance. I don’t get to hear all your jibber-jabber.
Sheldon: Jibber-jabber? I don’t jibber-jabber.

Penny: What are you doing at work these days?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m working on time-dependent backgrounds in string theory, specifically quantum field theory in D-dimensional de Sitter space.

Penny: Alright, come on, even you have to admit that’s jibber-jabber.
Sheldon: Interesting, do you know where the phrase jibber-jabber comes from?

Leonard: Sheldon, let’s go!
Sheldon: To a hospital? Full of sick people? Oh, I don’t think so.

Penny: Okay, well, your friend and his mother are there, we’re going.
Sheldon: I can’t.

Penny: Oh, don’t tell me you’re afraid of germs.
Sheldon: Not all germs. Just the ones that will kill me. It’s the same way I’m not afraid of all steak knives, just the ones that might be plunged in my thorax.

Leonard: Right, fine. I’ll tell Howard you didn’t come because you’re more concerned about your own well-being than his.
Sheldon: I would think he would know that.

Penny: Okay, you know what? You are unbelievable. You buy all these superhero T-shirts, but when it’s time for you to step up and do the right thing, you just hide in the laundry room.
Sheldon: Fine, I’ll go. Just for the record, my Aunt Ruth died in a hospital. She went in to visit my Uncle Roger, caught something and bit the dust a week later. The two of them now share a coffee can on my mother’s mantel.

Penny: What’s the difference?
Sheldon: A heart-attack-like event is an event that’s like a heart attack.

Penny: Thanks for clearing that up.
Sheldon: Regardless, coronary problems are eminently treatable. What’s more likely going to kill Howard’s mother are the antibiotic-resistant super-bugs festering in every nook and cranny of this hospital.

Penny: Okay, you’re not helping.
Sheldon: Disagree.

Leonard: Go sit over there.
Sheldon: I’ll sit over there, it looks cleaner.

Howard: It’s the circle of life, sweetie. One day our son will marry someone and it will kill you.
Sheldon: Howard, I have to go to the bathroom and no one will take me home.

Howard: What’s wrong with the bathroom here?
Sheldon: Pneumococcus, streptococcus, staphylococcus and other assorted coccuses.

Howard: Sheldon, my mother is on her deathbed and my fiancée is grief-stricken over putting her there. I’m not taking you home.
Sheldon: Will you at least go with me to the restroom here, so you can open the door and flush the urinal?

Howard: No!
Sheldon: This might be a good time to point out, Howard, that friendship requires a certain give and take. Hold the door!

Doctor: Wait, you can’t leave here, you’ve been exposed.
Sheldon: No, I haven’t. It’s all good.

Scene: A hospital room. The guys except for Sheldon are in Hazmat suits. 
Sheldon: Mountain Elf.

Raj: I got a colossal serpent right here.
Sheldon: Must you?

Raj: Sorry, I’m just trying to cheer my buddy up. Rotting Zombie. Sheldon’s new Facebook photo.
Sheldon: Zandor, Wizard of the North. Ha! I win.

Leonard: Well, you have milk in the taters, milk in the gravy, parmesan crust. Your lactose-intolerant boyfriend will turn into a gas-filled Macy’s Day balloon.
Sheldon: Not quite accurate. The Macy’s balloons are filled with helium, whereas Leonard produces copious amounts of methane.

Leonard: Kill me.
Sheldon: It wouldn’help. The human body is capable of being flatulent for hours after death.

Bernadette: Guys, sorry I’m late. I have amazing news.
Sheldon: Bernadette, before you change the subject, does anyone have any final comments on Leonard’s faulty digestive system?

Penny: Oh!
Sheldon: Oh, congratulations.

Leonard: So, Howard, tell us, how’s it feel knowing that when you two get married, you’ll be referred to as Mr. and Dr. Wolowitz?
Sheldon: Unless he takes Bernadette’s last name. And considering her advanced status, that could open some doors for him.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is talking to Amy on webcam. 
Sheldon: I must say, Amy, I was very impressed to see that Bernadette got her PhD.

Amy: It’s indeed admirable. Although, it is microbiology.
Sheldon: Your doctorate is in neurobiology. I fail to see the distinction.

Amy: I’ll make it simple for you. I study the brain, the organ responsible for Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony. Bernadette studies yeast, the organism responsible for Michelob Lite. Is there something wrong with your neck?
Sheldon: It’s a little stiff. What a remarkably fragile structure to support such a valuable payload. Not unlike balancing a Faberge egg on a Pixie Stick.

Amy: Have you considered massage?
Sheldon: I’d like to respond to that sarcastically. Yes, I relish the thought of a stranger covering my body with oil and rubbing it.

Amy: I was proposing you massage your muscles with your own hands.
Sheldon: Still sounds like a lot of unnecessary touching.

Amy: Trust me. With your right hand, locate the spot where the scapula meets the acromion process.
Sheldon: All right.

Amy: Now push your third finger along the ridge of the shoulder blade, making a small rotation as you do so.
Sheldon: Rotating.

Amy: You should feel a small node-like object rolling back and forth along the bone.
Sheldon: You mean the myofascial point?

Amy: Obviously. Now bear down on it like the seventh grade noogies we all know too well.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord, yes, yes, oh, yes! Amy, I’ve never been touched like this before! Oh! Oh, my hands are magic!

Amy: Don’t flatter yourself. Your hands are blunt tools guided by my knowledge of the nervous system. I could just as easily have paralyzed you.
Sheldon: There’s someone at my door.

Raj (at door): Can I sleep here tonight?
Sheldon: Why?

Raj: Leonard’s having astronomically inaccurate Star Trek sex with my sister.
Sheldon: I can see how that would be upsetting. Come in. I’ll get the sheets and blankets for the couch.

Raj: Oh, don’t bother. I’ll just sleep in Leonard’s room.
Sheldon: No, I can’t authorize that.

Raj: Well, he’s in my bed. Why can’t I be in his?
Sheldon: The Hammurabic Code is an eye for an eye, not a bed for a bed.

Raj: Come on, dude, I’m exhausted, and Tyra Banks says the most important item in your makeup bag is a good night’s sleep.
Sheldon: All right. This is a form indemnifying me from your use of Leonard’s bedroom. Sign here, indicating that I tried to stop you and did so using a stern facial expression.

Raj: Good night, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Wait. Not yet. We still have to go over safety procedures. Now, the apartment has three emergency exits located here, here, and here. In the event of a power outage, luminous paint will guide you to the nearest exit.

Raj: You’re kidding.
Sheldon: I never kid about safety.

Leonard: Until you have kids.
Sheldon: Good news, Raj. I got the blood work back from the lab. You’re okay to stay for a while.

Raj: When did you take my blood?
Sheldon: Not important. Your sugar was a little high. I’d follow up with your regular physician. In the meantime, I have some paperwork here for you to go over.

Raj: What the hell is this?
Sheldon: Boilerplate stuff. A modified roommate agreement for a temporary house guest. And a living will and durable power of attorney.

Raj: This says you can make end of life decisions for me.
Sheldon: As your friend, let’s hope it doesn’t come to that. Please sign.

Raj: Well, that seems fair.
Sheldon: Congratulations and welcome temporarily aboard. Here’s your I.D. Card, your key and your lapel pin. Which Leonard was too cool to wear. FYI, part of your responsibilities as roommate pro tem will be to drive me to and from work, the comic book store, the barbershop and the park for one hour every other Sunday for fresh air.

Leonard: Bring a ball or a Frisbee, you know, something he can chase.
Sheldon: Also, you’re tasked with bringing home all takeout dinners. Tonight is Thai food. You’ll find the standard order in appendix B or downloadable from my FTP server. If you have any questions, here’s the FAQ sheet, or if you prefer the human touch, I do a live web chat called Apartment Talk on Tuesday nights.

Raj: Sheldon, dinner!
Sheldon: What is this?

Raj: This is the difference between eating and dining.
Sheldon: Remarkable. I’m just realizing how much Leonard’s been skating by all these years.

Penny (at door): Hey, Sheldon, did you change your Wi-Fi password again?
Sheldon: Yes, it’s “Penny, get your own Wi-Fi.” No spaces.

Penny: Thanks. Wow! What’s with the fancy spread?
Sheldon: My new roommate is bending over backwards to ingratiate himself to me. (Pointing to lapel badge) Uh, nice touch, by the way.

Penny: What do you mean, new roommate? What happened to Leonard?
Sheldon: The same thing that happened to Homo Erectus. He was replaced by a superior species.

Raj: He’s living at my place, so I’m living here.
Sheldon: You’re living here provisionally. But I must say it’s looking good.

Penny: Woah, Leonard and Priya are living together? That’s big.
Sheldon: No. Origami napkin swans, that’s the headline.

Penny: Oh, no, no, no. I’ve had way too much already.
Sheldon: Here’s an interesting fact about alcohol.

Penny: Hit me.
Sheldon: Man is not the only species that ferments fruit in order to become intoxicated. Can you guess what the other is? Hint, sometimes they pack the alcohol in their trunks.

Penny: Monkeys.
Sheldon: When does a monkey have a trunk?

Penny: When a suitcase just won’t do.
Sheldon: Mmm, all right. It would appear as if alcohol is playing keep-away with your intelligence. Good night. Please note, it is now past ten p.m. Per our roommate agreement, kindly refrain from raucous laughter, clinking of glasses, and celebratory gunfire.

Scene: The living room. Leonard is asleep on the couch. 
Sheldon: What are you doing here?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I said, what are you doing here?

Leonard: I live here.
Sheldon: I have paperwork that says differently.

Leonard: Priya’s going back to India.
Sheldon: Irrelevant. Rajesh and I have a good thing going and you’re not going to ruin it. (Knock on door) What are you doing here?

Howard: I’ve been up all night. I had a fight with Bernadette.
Sheldon: Why?

Howard: She gave me a beautiful watch.
Sheldon: Leonard, do you understand this?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Talk to him.

Penny: Oh. It’s, it’s not what it looks like.
Sheldon: What does it look like?

Scene: The Cafeteria
Sheldon: It’s not what it looks like. It’s not what it looks like.

Leonard: What are you grinding about?
Sheldon: Penny’s brain teaser this morning. She and Koothrappali emerge from your bedroom. She is dishevelled, and Raj is dressed only in a sheet. The sole clue, it’s not what it looks like.

Leonard: Just let it go, Sheldon.
Sheldon: If I could, I would, but I can’t, so I shan’t. Now, knowing Penny, the obvious answer is, they engaged in coitus. But, since that’s what it looked like, we can rule that out. Let’s put on our thinking cap, shall we? (Mimes doing so) Raj is from India, a tropical country. Third World hygiene. Parasitic infections are common, such as pinworms. Mm-hmm. The procedure for diagnosing pinworms is to wait until the subject is asleep, and the worms crawl out of the rectum for air. (Leonard spits out food) Yes, just like that. Penny could have been inspecting Raj’s anal region for parasites. Oh, boy. That’s a true blue friend.

Leonard: They slept together, Sherlock.
Sheldon: No, you weren’t listening. She said, it’s not what it looks like.

Leonard: She lied.
Sheldon: Oh. Well don’t I look silly sitting here wearing this?

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hey. Leonard, is it awkward for you knowing that one of your dear friends had sexual intercourse with a woman you used to love in the very place you lay your head?

Leonard: No, I’m fine with it.
Sheldon: That sounds like sarcasm, but I’m going to disregard it, because I have an agenda. Paintball. Specifically, the interdepartmental tournament this weekend. Now, in order to function better as a fighting unit, I thought we should establish a chain of command. Now, it goes without saying that I would outrank the three of you, but the question remains, by how much? Now, I don’t see me as some four-star general, back at HQ riding a desk and playing golf with the Secretary of Defence. But I also can’t be Sergeant Cooper, because that might lead you to think of me as just a regular Joe. This might take some thought. As you were.

Leonard and Howard together: What?
Sheldon: Gentlemen, if I may interject, I’ve decided my rank will be captain. If it’s good enough for Kirk, Crunch and Kangaroo, it’s good enough for me.

Raj: That could have been about anyone. Besides, you have nothing to worry about, because now I’m the dusky half of Koothrapenny.
Sheldon: For the record, I do have genitals. They’re functional and aesthetically pleasing.

Penny: Somewhere where no one’s seen me naked. We may have to drive awhile. (Opens door. Sees Leonard and Sheldon. Slams it shut again.)
Sheldon: Subtlety isn’t her strong suit, is it?

Leonard: Do we really have to wear this camouflage crap to play paintball?
Sheldon: Who said that? Leonard, I can hear your voice, but I can’t see you.

Leonard: I’m not in the mood, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, there you are. Leonard, I know you’re upset about recent events, and I have someone here to help. (Showing laptop screen)

Leonard: I don’t want to talk to Amy.
Sheldon: No, it’s not Amy.

Leonard: You called my mother?
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard, is it really necessary to caption the obvious?

Scene: A shed on the paintball range.
Sheldon: All right, this is a Google Earth view of the field of battle.

Howard: I don’t see anything.
Sheldon: Give it a second to load. Whenever you’re ready, AT&T! Okay, here we go. This is us here. To the south is Professor Loomis and the Geology Department. According to their Twitter feed, they’re out of sunblock, which means they’ll have to hug the tree line or risk melanoma. That’s our edge. All we have to do is move quickly over this ridge, the rock-worshipping pasty-faced bastards won’t know what hit them. All right, let’s move out.

Raj: Sure, whatever.
Sheldon: You can’t quit. That’s a court-martial offence. That’s punishable by… You can’t quit.

Leonard: Sorry, Sheldon, it’s just not a good time for playing games.
Sheldon: This is a game to you? Uh, was the Battle of Antietam a game? Huh? Was the sack of Rome a game?

Leonard: Yes, no and no.
Sheldon: Wait. I just want you all to know that I forgive you. This mutiny isn’t your fault, it’s mine. I haven’t earned these bars. Although what I lack in leadership, apparently I more than make up for in sewing.

Howard: Let it go, Sheldon. I’ll get you a Jamba Juice on the way home.
Sheldon: No. Jamba Juice is for heroes. And that’s what we’re going to be.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: Following in the footsteps of Kirk, Crunch and Kangaroo. (Walks outside) Geology isn’t a real science! (Gets hit by countless paintball pellets)

Leonard: Let’s get ’em!
Sheldon: If there’s ever a Church of Sheldon, this will be when it started. Ow!

Howard and Raj: Here, here.
Sheldon: Excuse me. It’s Major Sheldon Cooper. With my last breath, I awarded myself a battlefield promotion. It’s kind of a big deal.

Penny: Shh! It’s my agent, it’s my agent. You’re kidding. Oh, my gosh. I can’t believe it! Really? Oh, I’m so excited, thank you, thank you so much. Okay, bye. I got the haemorrhoid commercial! I start Monday.
Sheldon: What about Nebraska?

Scene: The apartment. Leonard is laying out wine and napkins in front of his laptop.
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Leonard: Oh, uh, Priya’s calling in a few minutes on Skype, and we are gonna have a dinner date.
Sheldon: It’s eight o’clock in the morning in Mumbai. How can she have dinner?

Leonard: Fine, whatever. Priya will be having breakfast.
Sheldon: All right, so technically it’s not a dinner date. I suppose you could call it a, uh, dinfast date. But if you did, you’d open yourself to peer-based mocking, such as, Hey, Leonard, how was your dinfast with Priya last night?

Leonard: That doesn’t sound like mocking.
Sheldon: You didn’t let me finish. Dinfast (rolls eyes). Are those soy-based candles?

Leonard: I don’t know. Why?
Sheldon: Paraffin candles may contain carcinogens. Unless lung cancer is the ambiance you were going for at your dinfast. Dinfast (rolls eyes).

Leonard: Listen, I don’t want to be rude, but Priya’s gonna be calling any minute, so…
Sheldon: Oh, yes, Priya. Leonard, you know I make a point of never interfering in your personal affairs.

Leonard: Yes, I’ve always admired that about you.
Sheldon: As well you should. But I’m going to make an exception here.

Leonard: Oh, good.
Sheldon: Priya has moved back to India to pursue her law career. Instead of desperately trying to keep this intercontinental relationship alive, you could use that time to take up a hobby.

Leonard: A hobby?
Sheldon: Yes. I read recently about a fellow in Kansas with an enormous ball of twine. I bet you could give him a run for his money.

Leonard: You know, some people might say that it’s great that we’re trying to make things work long distance. They’d say things like, love is stronger than the miles between you.
Sheldon: When I rise to power, those people will be sterilized.

Leonard: You video-chat with Amy all the time. How is this different?
Sheldon: Don’t you like Amy?

Leonard: Of course I like Amy.
Sheldon: Well, there’s the difference. (Skype tone rings)

Leonard: Oh, I miss you, too.
Sheldon: I miss the old days when your romantic partners could be returned to the video store.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: Thanks for letting me stay here while Leonard Skypes with his girlfriend.

Penny: Oh, it’s no problem. It’s actually kind of nice. You reading, me reading. We’re like an old married couple.
Sheldon: If we were an old married couple, the wife would serve iced tea and snickerdoodles.

Penny: I don’t have iced tea and snickerdoodles.
Sheldon: A good wife would go to the store.

Penny: I want a divorce.
Sheldon: Good. On the way to see the lawyer, pick up some tea and cookies. I must say, I am enjoying your new chair.

Penny: It’s great, isn’t it?
Sheldon: It is. Aligns the lumbar, cradles the coccyx, balances the buttocks. This is a chair worthy of the name.

Penny: What name?
Sheldon: Chair.

Penny: Oh, all right, well, I’m glad you like it. I mean, I still can’t get over the fact someone just threw it away.
Sheldon: What?

Penny: What is wrong?
Sheldon: I’ve been sitting in garbage!

Penny: Sheldon, take it easy.
Sheldon: You take it easy! I need to use your shower.

Penny: I went into this marriage with so much hope.
Sheldon: There’s a wet Band-Aid on the shower floor. (Runs out of apartment).

Leonard: I don’t want to talk about it. You didn’t catch bugs from Penny’s chair.
Sheldon: Yes, I did. And now they’re cavorting at the base of my hair follicles like dancing hippies at the Redwood National Forest.

Leonard: Sheldon, you do this all the time. You fixate on some crazy idea and then blow it way out of proportion.
Sheldon: Name one time I’ve ever done that.

Leonard: How about when you put GPS trackers in your garbage because you were convinced North Korean spies were stealing your doodles? The chicken nuggets you were sure were human nuggets. The strangely-shaped cloud that was following you around town. The time you put on my shirt by mistake and were convinced you’d started growing again.
Sheldon: I said, name one. You really need to work on your listening skills.

Scene: Penny’s apartment door.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: Yello.
Sheldon: You need to remove that chair from the building. It’s a health hazard.

Penny: Okay, relax. I took off the slipcovers, had them dry-cleaned and then fumigated the cushions.
Sheldon: Really?

Penny: Yeah. It’s cleaner than my couch. Found half a Hot Pocket in there.
Sheldon: It certainly looks okay. Has a strong toxic chemical smell. That’s reassuring.

Penny: Why don’t you give it a try, Sheldon?
Sheldon: All right. It is a comfortable chair.

Penny: Why don’t you just admit you overreacted?
Sheldon: No, thank you. (Sees insect. More appear and swarm all over him. He jumps out of a daydream on his own couch. Jumps up and runs out to Penny’s apartment.

Penny: What’s up, buttercup?
Sheldon: You have to get rid of the chair.

Penny: Nope. (Closes door) 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: What’s the word, hummingbird?
Sheldon: For your safety, please wait in my apartment as I call the authorities so they may remove the chair of death.

Penny: No. (Closes door)
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: What’s the gist, physicist?
Sheldon: Under my authority as a self-appointed member of the Centres for Disease Control street team, these premises are condemned. (Penny tries to close door) As a man with a keen sense of style, I must tell you, that chair does not work with the room. (Penny closes door). (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Penny opens door and waves seat cushion at him. He screams and runs off. She closes door. He sneaks back) (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Amy: Five, six, seven, eight. Tall and tan and young and lovely, the girl from Ipanema goes walking, and when she passes, each one she passes goes…
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy.

Amy: Oh… You are aware that your ritualistic knocking behaviour is symptomatic of obsessive compulsive disorder?
Sheldon: Is not. Is not, is not.

Amy: Denial. Denial, denial. Come in.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: Would you like to hear me play a bossa nova standard on the harp?
Sheldon: No.

Amy: How about the theme song to the classic television show Diff’rent Strokes? Now the world don’t move to the beat…
Sheldon: No.

Amy: Well, that’s every song I know. What’s up?
Sheldon: You’re good friends with Penny, right?

Amy: Best friends, besties, BFFs, peas in a pod, sisters who would share travelling pants. Go on.
Sheldon: I was hoping she might listen to you about the dangers of owning unhygienic furniture.

Amy: For general educational purposes, or has she acquired a bar stool dipped in cholera?
Sheldon: Cholera is water-borne. You’re mocking me.

Amy: Yes, I am.
Sheldon: Penny has dragged a chair in off the street whose unknown provenance jeopardizes the health and welfare of every resident in our building.

Amy: Sheldon, just because you have a focus on cleanliness bordering on the psychotic doesn’t mean I have to participate.
Sheldon: All right, name your price.

Amy: Kiss me where I’ve never been kissed before.
Sheldon: You mean like Salt Lake City?

Amy: Never mind. I’ll talk to Penny.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: Will you listen to me play my harp now?
Sheldon: No. I dislike the sound of the harp. Its overuse in classic television sitcoms always makes me think I’m going to experience an episode from my past. (Amy plays glissando) I’m sorry, Mommy. Don’t be mad at me. Don’t do that!

Penny: Ooh, me.
Sheldon: Penny, a moment. We just had Thai food. In that culture, the last morsel is called the krengjai piece, and it is reserved for the most important and valued member of the group.

Penny: Thank you all for this high honour.
Sheldon: I’ve seen pictures of your mother, keep eating.

Penny: All right, I got to go to work. I’ll walk down with you.
Sheldon: Wait. Uh, which is closer to the new train store in Monrovia, the movie theatre or the Cheesecake Factory?

Howard: Neither of them are close.
Sheldon: Oh, well, then I guess it doesn’t matter which one of you drives me. Let’s play a fun guessing game to see who gets to take me. All right, this four-letter word describes either a printer’s type size or a compulsion to eat dirt.

Penny: Okay, I’m not driving him.
Sheldon: No, Penny, don’t give up, you can get this.

Bernadette: What are you going to get at the train store, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m not buying anything. They’re having a lecture. H-O gauge railroading. Half the size of O-gauge, but twice the fun. Very controversial topic.

Howard: Which side do you come down on?
Sheldon: I’ll let you know after tonight. Unlike some people, I’m going in with an open mind. Who am I kidding? Of course we all know it’s O-gauge or no gauge.

Bernadette: Hang on. You seriously think I’m going to live with your mother?
Sheldon: Howard, I think I can help here. Yes, Bernadette, that’s exactly what he thinks.

Raj: Mmmmmm.
Sheldon: Okay, everybody calm down. There is a simple solution here. Raj, take me to the train store, and then I don’t care what you people do.

Leonard: Rough night, Casey Jones?
Sheldon: You don’t know the half of it. It was billed as a lively give-and-take on the merits of model train sizes. But it was actually a set-up to intimidate weak-minded spineless rubes into buying H-O starter sets.

Leonard: What’s in the bag?
Sheldon: I don’t want to talk about it. But it’s not a spine,I’ll tell you that.

Amy: I would, but the last wedding we went to was a disaster. He behaved like a child the entire time.
Sheldon: Not my fault. You said there’d be other scientists there my age.

Amy: Doesn’t matter. You’re out, he’s in. No date to the prom, two dates to a wedding. Hmm, how times change.
Sheldon: Ha-ha, you have to go to a wedding.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is playing with his train set.
Sheldon: All this years, I’ve been so wrong. The tinier the train, the more concentrated the fun.

Penny: Aw. So handsome. Like James Bond.
Sheldon: Better than James Bond, because he’s tinier.

Amy: When you’re done copping a feel, that goes on my wrist.
Sheldon: All aboard! Woo-woo! It’s official. I’m an H-O trainiac.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Leonard. Check it out. I bought an N-gauge locomotive. Half the size of H-O. Look, it fits in my mouth.

Leonard: Sounds like you had a great night.
Sheldon: I did. How was yours?

Leonard: Not bad. I had a lot more fun with Amy than I thought I would.
Sheldon: What exactly do you mean by that?

Leonard: Well, it turns out she really knows how to help a guy loosen up and have a good time. Although, truth be told, my groin’s a little worse for wear. (Sheldon hits him) Ow! Why did you do that?
Sheldon: To send a message. She is not for you.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Not for you!

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: The entrance to the dungeon is a moss covered door. You manage to open it only to find yourself face-to-face with a hideous, foul-smelling, moss-covered ogre. What do you do?

Howard: I say, hey Ma, what’s for dinner?”
Sheldon: Seventeen. The ogre is amused by your joke and allows you to pass. By the by, I liked it, too.

Leonard: Maybe. We enter the dungeon.
Sheldon: You see a dragon.

Howard: Really? So we’re playing Dungeons and Dragons, and we walk into a dungeon and see a dragon? Isn’t that a little on the nose?
Sheldon: When you play Chutes and Ladders, do you complain about all the chutes and all the ladders?

Raj: That’s cruel. You know it goes straight to my hips.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, please focus. You’re facing a fire-breathing dragon.

Raj: I don’t know if I want to play anymore.
Sheldon: Because you don’t have a girlfriend? Well, good Lord, if that becomes a reason not to play Dungeons and Dragons, this game’s in serious trouble.

Leonard: Are we ready to order?
Sheldon: One moment. I’m conducting an experiment.

Howard: With Dungeons and Dragons dice?
Sheldon: Yes. From here on in, I’ve decided to make all trivial decisions with a throw of the dice, thus freeing up my mind to do what it does best, enlighten and amaze. Page 14, item seven.

Howard: So, what’s for dinner?
Sheldon: A side of corn succotash. Hmm. Interesting.

Penny: Uh, no, that’s not it. Just come with me, please.
Sheldon: Let’s see what I’ll be washing that succotash down with. A pitcher of margaritas.

Leonard: Do you really want that?
Sheldon: That’s the great thing. It doesn’t matter. My mind is freed up to think about more important things.

Raj: What’s it thinking about now?
Sheldon: Hamburgers and lemonade.

Raj: Ah, look at that. I have a date. I love America again.
Sheldon: And now for dessert, come on, hot fudge sundae, come on, hot fudge sundae. Bam! That’s what I’m talking about!

Penny: Mustache is looking good there, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Don’t thank me. Thank the dice. They told me what percentage of my face to shave.

Howard: Why are you still doing this?
Sheldon: Because it’s working. In the past few weeks, unburdened by trivial decisions, I’ve co-authored two papers in notable peer-reviewed journals, and I’m close to figuring out why the Large Hadron Collider has yet to isolate the Higgs boson particle.

Leonard: You left out, got chafed testicles because you no longer wear underpants.
Sheldon: The dice giveth and the dice taketh away.

Penny: Handicapped people are nice, Leonard. Everyone knows that.
Sheldon: Yeah, I actually have information about Raj that would be helpful with this discussion.

Leonard: Could you tell us?
Sheldon: Let’s see. (Rolls dice) Snake eyes. Sorry, bud.

Penny: Wait, hang on. Doubles. Roll again.
Sheldon: Okay, get this. It doesn’t matter if he’s showering her with gifts, because the Koothrappalis are vastly wealthy.

Penny: What do you mean, vastly wealthy?
Sheldon: Well, wealthy means a lot of money, and vastly means even more. I’m not sure what’s tripping you up.

Leonard: Look, I know they have money. I don’t think it’s that much.
Sheldon: No, you’re wrong. See, as you know, a few years ago, I achieved one of my lesser dreams and became a notary public. Well, from time to time, I notarize banking documents for Raj. The Koothrappalis aren’t just rich, they’re Richie Rich rich.

Penny: Well, so how much is that?
Sheldon: About halfway between Bruce Wayne and Scrooge McDuck.

Howard: He’s not going to listen, he’s in love.
Sheldon: Can’t figure out what to do? I remember those days. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to… (rolls dice) stay right here.

Howard: Try throwing it in the microwave for a few seconds.
Sheldon: Should I use the rest room or wait until we get home? Come on, papa needs to void his bladder. Oh, that’s not what you want to see after three buttermilks.

Leonard: Yeah, real big of you.
Sheldon: Hurry, hurry, hurry.

Leonard: It’s from Game of Thrones. What do you think?
Sheldon: I don’t know. If we’re going to start a fantasy sword collection, and I’ve long thought we should, is this really the sword to start with?

Leonard: What did you have in mind?
Sheldon: Well, off the top of my head, I’d have to go with Excalibur. It gives you the right to rule England.

Leonard: It would be a replica of a movie prop.
Sheldon: Fair enough. It’d give you the right to rule a replica of England.

Leonard: Well, they don’t have an Excalibur here, so what do you want to do?
Sheldon: Mm. Tough decision. There’s no weaponry from Lord of the Rings, forged in a Chinese sweatshop?

Leonard: Just Bilbo Baggins’ sword over there.
Sheldon: Two grown men with a hobbit’s dagger; wouldn’t we look silly? Okay, let’s go for it.

Leonard: Yeah. It’s okay, I guess.
Sheldon: Okay? It’s magnificent.

Stuart: Well, it’s a limited edition. They only made 8,000 of these bad boys.
Sheldon: Only 8,000? We’re wasting precious time. Buy it.

Stuart: Are you kidding? I’m already giving you the friends and family discount.
Sheldon: Oh, did you hear that? We’re getting the friends and family discount. We are honoured and we will take it.

Leonard: Slow down. Two hundred.
Sheldon: What are you doing? Two fifty is already the discounted price.

Stuart: Okay, two twenty five, my final offer.
Sheldon: Take it, take it.

Stuart: Man, you’re killing me!
Sheldon: Killing you? I can’t breathe.

Stuart: Two ten, and I’m losing money.
Sheldon: Oh, now, we can’t let him lose money, Leonard. I’m so sorry.

Leonard: See that? I just saved us forty bucks.
Sheldon: I’ve long said, what you lack in academic knowledge you make up for in street smarts.

Stuart: Ah, hey, Wil.
Sheldon: Hello, Wil Wheaton.

Wil: Hi, Sheldon. Nice sword.
Sheldon: It’s part of my sword collection. Do you have a sword collection?

Wil: No.
Sheldon: I’m not surprised.

Wil: Good deal.
Sheldon: Sucker. Didn’t even ask for the friends and family discount.

Wil: All right, great. Later.
Sheldon: I see what you’re doing. You accept an invitation to a party at the home of my sworn enemy, he tells everyone we’re going to be there, and when we don’t show, he looks the fool. Fiendishly clever.

Leonard: I was actually thinking about going.
Sheldon: And then declaring the party a fiasco and storming out, leaving him humiliated in front of his guests. Love it.

Leonard: Sheldon, can you grab me a water?
Sheldon: Possibly.

Leonard: Can you or can’t you?
Sheldon: It’s not that simple, Leonard.

Leonard: It never is, is it?
Sheldon: At this moment, our relationship exists in two mutually contradictory states. Until you either do not go or go to Wil Wheaton’s party, you are simultaneously my friend and not my friend. I’m characterizing this phenomenon as Schrodinger’s Friendship.

Leonard: Got it. Can I have my water?
Sheldon: Of course. Now get it yourself, you traitor.

Penny: Wait, what is going on?
Sheldon: In case you have forgotten, Schrodinger’s cat is a thought experiment…

Howard: It gets better. Someone has to go up with the telescope as a payload specialist, and guess who that someone is.
Sheldon: Mohammed Lee.

Howard: Who’s Mohammed Lee?
Sheldon: Mohammed is the most common first name in the world, Lee, the most common surname. As I didn’t know the answer, I thought that gave me a mathematical edge.

All: Cheers.
Sheldon: That was a lovely toast. Kudos.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: Simultaneously, a festival of cloying clichés. You sicken me.

Leonard: Pretty cool about Howard, huh?
Sheldon: Don’t talk to me as if nothing’s happened between us. And yes, it sure is, buddy.

Leonard: For God’s sake, will you stop with the Schrodinger stuff.
Sheldon: Would you prefer a simpler application of Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle, in which I could either know where you are or whether I like you, but not both?

Amy: Sheldon, I know you’re a bit of a left-handed monkey wrench, but, you really have a mortal enemy?
Sheldon: In fact, I have 61 of them. Would you like to see the list?

Penny: Oh, say no, say no, say no, say no.
Sheldon: You just got off the list. Would you like back on it? This’ll just take a moment. It’s on a five and a quarter inch floppy.

Amy: A floppy disk?
Sheldon: Well, I started the list when I was nine.

All: Oh! Oh, God!
Sheldon: As a child, I loved Wesley Crusher, Wil Wheaton’s character on Star Trek. So, I drove for hours by bus to a Star Trek convention at which Wil Wheaton was scheduled to appear, so that I could get my Wesley Crusher action figure signed. But he never showed, because apparently, it was cooler for him to be the lower-left corner on Hollywood Squares. Oh, damn! The floppy failed. Well, whoever was in charge of quality control at the Verbatim Corporation in 1989, congratulations, you just made the list.

Leonard: I hate to say it, but she did kind of betray you.
Sheldon: Interesting. You see betrayal in others, but not yourself.

Leonard: Going to Wheaton’s party is not betraying you.
Sheldon: Oh, of course you would have to believe that. Evil always thinks it’s doing right. Excuse me, Stormtrooper. These are the droids you’re looking for.

Leonard: I’m going to a party. I’m not turning R2-D2 and C-3PO over to the empire!
Sheldon: Not yet.

Leonard: All right, Sheldon, we’re going to Wil’s. This is your last chance.
Sheldon: No, Leonard, this is your last chance. One day, a historian is going to come to you and say, is it true you were friends with Dr. Sheldon Cooper? And you’re going to have to choke back a hot sob of regret and humiliation as you mumble, I was, but I chose to go to a party thrown by the one kid from Stand By Me that no one remembers.

Leonard: Hey, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Oh, good. You picked me, you picked me.

Leonard: No, I just got a text from Stuart. Brent Spiner is at the party.
Sheldon: Brent Spiner?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: I don’t care.

Leonard: Really? Brent Spiner, Mr. Data himself. You love him.
Sheldon: I did, but I think I’ve kind of outgrown Star Trek. You know, stock characters, ludicrous plots, beam me up. What a load of hooey.

Leonard: I’m going. Live long and prosper, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yeah, even that. You look like a dork.

Leonard: What are you doing here?
Sheldon: Fighting for our friendship. As peculiar and annoying as you can be, you’re still my little buddy. I’m not going to let that end here tonight. Now put down that drink, let’s meet Brent Spiner and go home.

Wil: Hey, Sheldon, I’m so glad you made it. I found something I think you might like.
Sheldon: What I’d like is for him to have a more depressing home. This is quite lovely.

Wil: This is for you.
Sheldon: An original mint-in-package Wesley Crusher action figure.

Wil: Look at what I wrote.
Sheldon: To Sheldon, sorry this took so long. Your friend, Wil Wheaton.

Wil: It’s my last one. I want you to have it.
Sheldon: Look, everyone. Wil Wheaton is my friend!

Brent Spiner: Oh, wow. I haven’t seen one of these in years. (Rips open action figure packaging) Remember how we used to make these things look like they were masturbating?
Sheldon: Brent Spiner, what have you done? That was an original mint-in-package Wesley Crusher action figure signed by my close personal friend, Wil Wheaton.

Brent: Sorry, Slim. I’ve got some Mr. Data dolls in the trunk of my car. You want me to sign one for you?
Sheldon: You’ve already signed something, Brent Spiner. Your name on my list. From this moment on, you are my mortal enemy.

Wil: Don’t worry. It doesn’t take up a whole lot of your time.
Sheldon: Come on, buddy. Let’s not waste another second on this loser. Love your house.

Mrs Cooper: It’s called the Born Again Boat Ride. Christian Quarterly gave it their highest rating, five thorny crowns. I do wish you’d come with me, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Well, Mom, if I did, it would be conclusive proof that your God can work miracles.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, it is a hoot and a half. You write your sins on a clay pigeon, they fire ’em up in the air, and you pulverize them with a 12-gauge shotgun full of our Lord’s forgiveness.
Sheldon: Frankly, Mom, I’m encouraged to see how advanced your group has become, willing to sail out into the ocean without fear of falling off the edge.

Mrs Cooper: For example, if Shelly was aboard, he’d write “smart mouth” on his pigeon, and then bam!
Sheldon: The Lord giveth and the Lord bloweth away. Well, Mom, according to my itinerary for our weekend together, the fun begins with fried chicken.

Mrs Cooper: Sounds delicious.
Sheldon: Good, ’cause I got you everything you need to make it. You are in for a treat. My mother’s fried chicken is why we had to buy my dad the extra large coffin.

Leonard: Sheldon, she just got off the plane. She doesn’t want to cook.
Sheldon: Of course she does. Making me food is her way of saying I love you. Making me food when she’s too tired to cook is her way of saying I really love you.

Mrs Cooper: Actually, I wouldn’t mind going out for a bite, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Won’t that spoil our appetites for the chicken you’re going to make me?

Mrs Cooper: I’ve never had it, but there’s no harm in trying something new.
Sheldon: There’s a lot of harm in trying something new. That’s why we test out drugs and cosmetics on bunny rabbits.

Mrs Cooper: Actually, I had him tested as a child. Doctor says he’s fine.
Sheldon: Told you.

All: Irasshaimase!
Sheldon: Stop yelling! I’m not happy about this.

Leonard: What’s the last thing you were ever happy about?
Sheldon: The prospect of fried chicken.

Mrs Cooper: So, Shelly, what’s up with you and your friend Amy, if you don’t mind a mother prying a bit?
Sheldon: Well, there’s actually big news on the Amy front. She’s been studying the neurobiology of addiction in lower animals. She is this close to getting a starfish hooked on cocaine.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, that’s a funny turn, isn’t it? You never think about it going the other way. Well, you can’t force things. You need to figure out if you’re in a relationship or if you’re just calling it one. It’s like they say, a cat can have kittens in the oven but that don’t make ’em biscuits.
Sheldon: And that reminds me of another saying. You can lead a chicken to Crisco, but you can’tmake your mother fry it.

Mrs Cooper: It was good. The only thing that would have made it better is if it was cooked and if it was beef. Sheldon, when is your landlord going to fix the elevator?
Sheldon: I don’t know. Lately we’ve been talking about converting it into a missile silo.

Leonard: Your son seems to think we need to launch a pre-emptive strike on Burbank.
Sheldon: Get them before they get us.

Raj: I couldn’t find you guys so I bought six new friends. Three, sadly, are dead.
Sheldon: Mom, you remember Rajesh? Rajesh, my mother.

Raj: I’m so lonely.
Sheldon: Oh, yes, born alone, die alone. It’s a tragic human condition. Now, Raj, if you’ll excuse my mother, she’s about to make a pecan pie that’ll be so good I’ll almost forget how she blew it with the fried chicken.

Mrs Cooper: Sheldon, your friend is hurtin’. What do we do when someone’s hurtin’?
Sheldon: Offer them a hot beverage.

Mrs Cooper: And when they’re drunk as a skunk, what beverage do we offer?
Sheldon: Coffee.

Raj: I didn’t get a lot of that because of your accent, but the general tone was soothing and somehow I feel better.
Sheldon: I’m not going to get my pecan pie, am I?

Leonard: You want some Oreos?
Sheldon: Double Stuf?

Leonard: No, regular.
Sheldon: Nice. Kick a man when he’s down.

Scene: The laundry room.
Sheldon: I’m glad we’re finally getting to do something together, just the two of us.

Mrs Cooper: Sure. One thing you really miss when you’re on vacation is laundry.
Sheldon: Careful, you’re using too much Downey. You know if my clothes get too soft it makes me sleepy.

Mrs Cooper: Well, this takes me back. Me doing your laundry, you next to me criticizing.
Sheldon: It is nice, isn’t it?

Penny: Sheldon, you didn’t tell me your mom was coming.
Sheldon: It was in my weekly e-mail blast. Right between beet season is finally here, and uh-oh, red stool from beets leads to cancer scare.

Penny: Well, it’s super cute on. That top has paid for itself in free drinks like ten times what it cost.
Sheldon: Yes, Penny has a lot of her money tied up in promiscuity futures.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, not crazy at all. And don’t beat yourself up. When I was your age, you could have me for a car ride and a bottle of strawberry wine.
Sheldon: Now that will not be in this week’s e-mail blast.

Howard: Nope. She says if I don’t back out she’s going to go on a hunger strike. It would take years before she’d be in any kind of danger, but still.
Sheldon: I’ve got a treat for us tomorrow, Mom. I’m taking you to see Saul Perlmutter give a lecture about his Nobel Prize-winning work in cosmology. And the best part is, at the Q and A afterward, I’ve worked up a couple of Q’s that will stump his sorry A.

Mrs Cooper: I don’t know, Shelly. I thought we could do a little sightseeing.
Sheldon: What sight is better than your little boy embarrassing a Nobel laureate?

Howard: What do you say?
Sheldon: What do I say? I say you people need to stop ruining my mom’s visit with your sushi, and your sadness and your slutty shirts. Stop it.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, doctors are always changing their mind. One week bacon grease is bad for you. The next week we’re not getting enough of it. Good morning, Shelly.
Sheldon: Mom, I want to apologize for my behaviour last night.

Mrs Cooper: Apology accepted.
Sheldon: Great. Now, you’re going to love the Perlmutter lecture. Look, he will be stating that the universe is older than 6,000 years, but I thought you could stick your fingers in your ears and hum Amazing Grace during those parts.

Mrs Cooper: I am still going out with your friends.
Sheldon: But I apologized. And that was hard for me because I didn’t do anything wrong.

Mrs Cooper: Shelly, I hung out with you in enough dusty lecture halls while you were growing up. I want to go sightseeing. So why don’t you have some pancakes, get dressed and come with us.
Sheldon: I’m not going, and you can’t make me.

Mrs Cooper: You’re right, I can’t. Have a nice day.
Sheldon: Well, I’m going to stand here until you change your mind.

Leonard: I’m just gonna take my bacon grease and slide over there.
Sheldon: I can’t believe my own mother is abandoning me.

Mrs Cooper: I am not abandoning you. Sheldon, abandoning you is leaving you in a basket on a church doorstep. I am going to Hollywood and thank a wax Ronald Reagan for his service to our country.
Sheldon: We appear to be at a crossroads in our relationship, Mother.

Leonard: Sorry. Syrup.
Sheldon: All right, Mom. When you’re at the Ripley’s Believe It Or Not Museum, if they have an exhibit about a mother who threw away a chance to spend the day with the world’s most wonderful son, believe it, because it’s true. (Grabs pancakes and snatches syrup from Leonard’s hand)

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: That lecture was a waste of time. I made more accurate diagrams of the expansion of the early universe on the nursery wall with the contents of my diaper. (Sneezes)

Amy: Are you getting sick?
Sheldon: No, I’m just allergic to people who get Nobel Prizes for no good reason.

Amy: Sheldon, is it possible that your foul mood, or, to use the clinical term, bitchiness, is because your mother isn’t making you a priority?
Sheldon: No. Or to use the clinical term, nuh-uh.

Amy: Are you sure? The infant-mother pair-bond is the building block of primate psychology.
Sheldon: Oh, there it is. It always comes back to monkeys with you. Just monkeys, monkeys, monkeys.

Amy: Sheldon, we’re all animals. And granted, there are aspects of you that are extraordinary, but when it comes to emotions and relationships, you’re just like everybody else.
Sheldon: Are you trying to suggest that my emotional problems are no different than those of a stupid person?

Amy: Actually, some research indicates that by not over-thinking, the less intelligent handle emotions better. (He sneezes again) Sure you’re not coming down with a cold?
Sheldon: Oh, yes, the common cold. Just like everyone else. You’d love that, wouldn’t you?

Scene: A park bench. Sheldon is sitting. A stranger sits next to him.
Sheldon: Look at the two of us. Me, a highly regarded physicist. The kind of mind that comes along once, maybe twice in a generation. You, the common man, tired from your labours as a stockbroker, or vacuum cleaner salesman, or bootblack. But deep down inside, apparently we’re just two peas in a pod. A regular pea, and the kind of pea that comes along once, maybe twice in a generation. Rain. Another great equalizer. Falling on the head of the brilliant and the unremarkable alike. (The stranger puts up an umbrella) Smarty-pants.

Leonard: Here.
Sheldon: Thank you. Yeah, I’ve learned something today. You and I, in so many ways, other than intelligence and what counts, we’re the same. (Sneezes)

Mrs Cooper: Sweetheart, are you sick?
Sheldon: I hope so, because if this is well, life isn’t worth living.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, sugarpie, you are burning up. We’ve got to get you to bed.
Sheldon: Okay.

Mrs Cooper: Don’t worry. Mama’s here to take care of her baby.
Sheldon: And just to be clear, only her baby and not these other people.

Mrs Cooper: Of course.
Sheldon: Can I have tea with honey and toast with the crust cut off?

Mrs Cooper: You can have whatever you want.
Sheldon: Thanks, Mom.You’re the best.

Mrs Cooper: Boy, last time I put VapoRub on you, you didn’t have hair on your chest.
Sheldon: I know, it filled in last year. I didn’t get to spend a lot of time with you on this visit.

Mrs Cooper: And whose fault was that?
Sheldon: Yours.

Mrs Cooper: Shelly, you’re not eight years old any more. We have to have a different relationship.
Sheldon: No, we don’t. The one we have works great.

Mrs Cooper: Sweetheart, you are a grown man.
Sheldon: Or maybe I’m part of a new species, that lives for hundreds of years, which means I’m still basically a toddler.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, I so should have taken you to Houston.
Sheldon: Does this mean you’re not going to sing Soft Kitty?

Leonard (at door): Mrs. Cooper, were we supposed to take that pie out of the oven?
Sheldon: Get out!

Mrs Cooper: Well, that was rude.
Sheldon: Well, I know, but he means well. Sing.

Mrs Cooper: Happy kitty, sleepy kitty…
Sheldon: What are you trying to pull, Mom? From the top.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: And reverse the spin on the antiproton, and gamma becomes alpha, multiplied by a matrix of negative I comma zero, and there we have it. Conclusive proof that I am absolutely worthless after nine o’clock.

Ghostly voice: Sheldon, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hmm. (Looks outside office door. Corridor lamp sparks and goes out. Corridor is bathed in an eerie glow) All right, all right. I see what’s going on. A little pre-Halloween hijinkery. A ghostly moan, a rattling of chains, a witch’s cackle. The trifecta of haunted house clichés. Instead of eek, I say yawn.

Ghostly voice: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, the walls are dripping blood, which looks nothing like a phenolphthalein indicator exposed to a sodium carbonate solution. (Reading message on wall) See you in hell Sheldon. The most frightening thing about that is the missing comma. (A luminous skeleton rushes towards him) Ah. Okay, all right. That one was clever. Skeleton with phosphorous on a zip line. Come on out, merry pranksters. Take a bow.

Raj: You should’ve seen your face.
Sheldon: Yes, there’s nothing quite like the slightly widened eyes of mildly startled.

Howard: Come on, admit it. We got you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Please, fright depends on an element of surprise. The simple fact is, because I am much smarter than you, and able to anticipate your actions, it is highly unlikely that you two rubes could ever surprise me. (Leonard creeps out behind him wearing a Star Trek Balok mask)

Howard: We can’t beat him. He’s just too smart.
Sheldon: Gentlemen. (Turns and sees Leonard. Screams and faints).

Leonard: Oh. Watch out, Sheldon. This little boy Casper is a g-g-g-ghost!
Sheldon: Droll.

Leonard: That was pretty droll. With a hint of ammonia.
Sheldon: Yes, enjoy your japes, gentlemen. You think you’ve poked fun at a milquetoast academic. Well, you’ve forgotten one thing. I am also a son of the Lone Star state. I’m Texas through and through. And we know how to settle scores down there. If you doubt me, ask Mexico.

Scene: Entering the apartment building.
Sheldon: Be sure to check the mail.

Leonard: How many times are you gonna tell me? What’s with you?
Sheldon: Nothing. It’s not suspicious that I’m fixating. It’s consistent with my personality.

Penny: Oh. Yeah. That’s gone. It’s a rough month when Halloween and PMS hit at the same time.
Sheldon: Leonard doesn’t have time to chat, he has to get the mail.

Leonard: Will you relax? I’ll get it in a minute. Hey, how was work?
Sheldon: Open the mail!

Raj (entering): Good morning, Sheldon.
Sheldon: It is, isn’t it? Oh, bother. Isn’t that just always the way? You go to staple something, and you’re out of staples. Gosh, I wish I’d known that earlier today when I was at Staples.

Raj: You have a thing of paper clips right there.
Sheldon: well, no, no, I need something more permanent to join these papers. Say, don’t you keep staples in your top desk drawer?

Raj: I don’t know. Maybe.
Sheldon: Be a lamb and check.

Raj: All right. (Opening drawer) Who do we have here?
Sheldon: It’s a snake. A terrifying snake.

Raj: Oh, did some bad man put us in a drawer?
Sheldon: Stop talking like that. You’ve been rendered speechless by fear.

Raj: Let’s go to the biology lab and find you some nice yummy mice.
Sheldon: I tried to scare an Indian with a snake. Come on, Cooper. You’re better than this.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is adjusting a device on his arm.
Sheldon: Hello, Howard. I’ve realized that you scaring me was all in jest. Allow me to say, job well done. (Grabs his own hand. Electrocutes himself.) Perfect.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: Science. You wouldn’t understand.

Leonard: Hey, well, see you. I’m going out. (Starts to go out. Doesn’t.)
Sheldon: I thought you were leaving the apartment.

Leonard: Yeah, me, too. I can’t make up my mind.
Sheldon: Are you concerned because the world is filled with big dogs and bullies?

Leonard: No. I’m having a moral crisis.
Sheldon: Well, if it’s of any help, I’ve read all the great moral philosophers, including Dr. Seuss.

Leonard: Oh, what the hell. I’m supposed to go see that girl from the comic book store, Alice, but I don’t know if I should, because I’m going out with Priya, but she’s in India.
Sheldon: All right. So the topic at hand is sexual fidelity. Probably won’t be relying on Seuss here. Although One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish might be surprisingly applicable. Go on.

Leonard: Well, they say at the end of your life, you regret the stuff you didn’t do more than the stuff that you did, and I’m pretty sure Alice is the stuff I want to do.
Sheldon: You know, the German philosopher, Friedrich Nietzsche, believed that morality is just a fiction used by the herd of inferior human beings to hold back the few superior men.

Leonard: That actually does help.
Sheldon: It’s worth noting that he died of syphilis.

Leonard: Screw it, I’m going.
Sheldon: On your way home, will you pick up some orange juice?

Leonard: Do you mind? I’m questioning a lot of things in my life right now.
Sheldon: Is one of those things your fondness for orange juice?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Great. Tropicana, no pulp.

Bernadette (off): Who is it?
Sheldon: It’s me, Sheldon, Mrs. Wolowitz.

Howard: That’s not my mom, it’s Bernadette.
Sheldon: Really? That’s very unsettling.

Bernadette: Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hi.

Howard: What’s up?
Sheldon: It just occurred to me that I never formally congratulated you on your pending nuptials. So I hopped on the first bus and hightailed it down here to shake your hand. Put ‘er there, you old so-and-so.

Howard: Well, I, I’m gonna see you at work in 12 hours, don’t you think it could have waited until then?
Sheldon: Holy smoke, why didn’t I think of that? You’re a better man than I, Howard Wolowitz. You put ‘er there, you son of a gun!

Bernadette: Oh, my God, Howard! What did you do?
Sheldon: It was a harmless Halloween prank. Look.

Bernadette: Howard has a heart condition! You know that!
Sheldon: Well, I thought he made that up. Isn’t hypochondria a common idiosyncrasy of Jewish people?

Bernadette: This is adrenaline, we’re gonna have to inject it into his heart.
Sheldon: We are?

Bernadette: You are. I’m not strong enough to get it through his chest plate, and we’ve only got one shot.
Sheldon: Oh, no! I can’t!

Bernadette: Hurry! We’re running out of time!
Sheldon: Okay.

Bernadette: Just do it!
Sheldon: Oh, God! One, two, three!

Howard: Trick or treat, bubbeleh.
Sheldon: What? No. You mean this was all a ruse? Oh, how could I be so stu… (puts hand to forehead. Electrocutes himself).

Amy: Uh, I was hoping you wouldn’t notice. Irene was always a slave to a good bargain when it came to clothes, and sadly as it turned out, space heaters.
Sheldon: Ladies, please. These four walls once housed an intellectual salon where the mind received nourishment as well as the stomach. But through no one’s fault, Penny, the quality of dinner conversation in this apartment has declined. And again, I’m looking at no one in particular, Penny.

Howard: What would you like to talk about, Sheldon? Why do you hate us?
Sheldon: I’ve prepared a number of topics that should appeal to both the advanced and novice conversationalists.

Amy: Who didn’t? Your skin is like alabaster. Do you even have pores?
Sheldon: Topic one. Faster-than-light particles at CERN, paradigm-shifting discovery or another Swiss export as full of holes as their cheese? And converse.

Amy: Wait for moi.
Sheldon: You’re leaving?

Amy: Sheldon, sometimes you forget, I’m a lady. And with that comes an oestrogen fuelled need to page through thick glossy magazines that make me hate my body.
Sheldon: Ah. New topic. Women, delightfully mysterious or bat-crap crazy?

Amy: Your neurology department loaned me a culture of prions for my research on bovine spongiform encephalopathy.
Sheldon: She popped by to borrow a cup of mad cow disease.

Howard: Please, we’re eating. Can we get that off the table and change the subject?
Sheldon: Can we? Stand back while I turn this conversation into a conver-sensation.

Leonard: This time, it’s your fault.
Sheldon: I have 100 alphabetized topics from artichoke, come on, people, it’s just a giant thistle, to zzz, the onamona-poetry of sleep.

Leonard: Leonard’s coming down the home stretch! Come on, horsey, you can do this! Damn. Come on, thigh muscles, you can do this! Yes! First place. I would have been a great jockey if I weren’t too tall. And scared of horses. Sheldon, you’re up.
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: Come on, it’s your turn. We said we’d get more fresh air.
Sheldon: Sorry. I’m a little distracted. I can’t seem to get in touch with Amy. I tried e-mail, video chat, tweeting her, posting on her Facebook wall, texting her, nothing.

Leonard: Did you try calling her on the telephone?
Sheldon: The telephone. You know, Leonard, in your own simple way, you may be the wisest of us all. Voice mail. Curiouser and curiouser.

Leonard: If you’re worried, we can go over there and see if she’s all right.
Sheldon: Okay. You know, I heard in the news a bobcat has been spotted in her neighbourhood.

Leonard: I don’t think Amy was eaten by a bobcat.
Sheldon: Who thinks Amy was eaten by a bobcat?

Leonard: You do?
Sheldon: Leonard, I was just mentioning an interesting local news item. Now, thanks to you, I’m worried Amy’s been eaten by a bobcat.

Leonard: Forget about the bobcat.
Sheldon: How can I? You won’t stop talking about it.

Leonard: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. Bye.
Sheldon: Where are you going?

Amy: Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: You didn’t respond to any of my electronic communications.

Amy: I wanted to be alone.
Sheldon: Would you like to talk about it? And keep in mind that no is a perfectly viable answer.

Amy: Sheldon, my world is crumbling around me.
Sheldon: Point of order. As you’re in distress, it would be customary for me to offer you a hot beverage. But I’m a guest in your home, so it would be customary for you to offer me a beverage. How do you want to proceed vis-a-vis beverages?

Amy: It doesn’t matter. Nothing matters.
Sheldon: If you’d like to take your mind off what’s troubling you, uh, word on the street is a bobcat has been spotted.

Amy: Penny and Bernadette went shopping for bridesmaids dresses without me.
Sheldon: And that made you feel sad?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: I knew it. Just keep going, I guess I’m good at this.

Amy: It’s just, I thought they liked hanging out with me, but I guess I was fooling myself.
Sheldon: When they were over here, did you fail to offer them a beverage? ‘Cause I can see how that could stick in someone’s craw.

Amy: Sheldon, I’m going to ask you something, and I’d like you to keep an open mind.
Sheldon: Always.

Amy: At this moment, I find myself craving human intimacy and physical contact.
Sheldon: Oh, boy. You know ours is a relationship of the mind.

Amy: Proposal. One wild night of torrid lovemaking that soothes my soul and inflames my loins.
Sheldon: Counterproposal. I will gently stroke your head and repeat, aw, who’s a good Amy.

Amy: How about this? French kissing, seven minutes in heaven culminating in second base.
Sheldon: Neck massage, then you get me that beverage.

Amy: We cuddle. Final offer.
Sheldon: Very well. Oh, boy. (They cuddle, awkwardly.)

Raj: This is not a safe place. You can’t share anything here.
Sheldon: The two of you need to get your women in line!

Howard: What?
Sheldon: Last night I was strong-armed into an evening of harp music and spooning with an emotional Amy Farrah Fowler. This on a night that I had originally designated for solving the space-time geometry in higher-spin gravity and building my Lego Death Star. And why? Your gal pals, Penny and Bernadette, went out shopping for some wedding nonsense without Amy, an action they took with no thought or regard as to how it would affect me, the future of string theory or my Lego fun time.

Howard: What do you want us to do about it?
Sheldon: You clearly weren’t listening to my topic sentence, get your women in line! You make them apologize to Amy and set things right. I am a man of science, not someone’s snuggle bunny!

Leonard: Why do I have to talk to Penny? She’s not my girlfriend.
Sheldon: You invited her to lunch four years ago. Everything about her is on you, you make it so!

Scene: The apartment, Sheldon is building his Lego Death Star. Phone rings.
Sheldon: Did you know that when Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone, he proposed answering it with ahoy? Ahoy. I like it. Amy? Is that you? Have you been drinking? I’m sorry, I bet my sweet what? Well, all right. We’re on our way.

Leonard: What’s going on?
Sheldon: It would seem Amy is drunk in a liquor store parking lot.

Leonard: Really? Amy?
Sheldon: Leonard, be glad you can’t keep a woman. They are a handful.

Leonard: Cuddles?
Sheldon: Yes, Cuddles. We cuddled. Grow up, Leonard.

Leonard: Yeah, Sheldon, what would it take?
Sheldon: I’m begging both of you, please, let’s go.

Leonard: Well, he’s smart and crazy enough, he may have actually created a monster. (They enter. Sheldon is by the window.)
Sheldon: Shoo, shoo! Be gone!

Leonard: What the hell is going on?
Sheldon: There’s a bird outside the window, and he won’t go away. That is the hell that is going on. We have no worms or seeds here. Shoo, shoo.

Penny: Really? On top of everything else, you’re afraid of birds?
Sheldon: It’s called ornithophobia. And someday it will be recognized as a true disability, and the landlord will be required by law to put a giant net over the building. Which is unfortunate, because I have a fear of nets.

Penny: Great. I’ll see you later. And remember, he’s more afraid of you than you are of him.
Sheldon: That doesn’t help.

Penny: No, I was talking to the bird.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Go away, bird. (Knock, knock, knock) Go away, bird. (Knock, knock, knock) Go away, bird.

Leonard: Sheldon, just ignore him.
Sheldon: Good idea. Attention is what birds want. (Pulls curtain) Oh, much better. All right. Now I’ll just get along with my life. (Bird squawks) Make a pot of tea, Leonard. It’s going to be a long night.

Leonard: The bird’s still there?
Sheldon: Quick, what does a hawk sound like?

Leonard: I don’t know. Scree-scree.
Sheldon: Please, that’s a seagull. If you’re not going to help, don’t help.

Leonard: Sorry. Do you think I’m overdressed?
Sheldon: It depends on the activity. For a prostate exam, yes. If you’re playing Vegas, I’d add sequins.

Leonard: I’m going to the movies with Penny. I don’t want her to think that I think it’s a date.
Sheldon: Do you think it’s a date?

Leonard: No, but she might think I think it’s a date even though I don’t.
Sheldon: Or you might think she thinks you think it’s a date even though she doesn’t.

Leonard: Are we overthinking this?
Sheldon: Not at all.

Leonard: You’re right. I’m fine. I’m wearing this.
Sheldon: Really? A blazer? All right. (Leonard takes off blazer and heads back to his room. Sheldon dials phone) Yes, hello. This is Dr. Sheldon Cooper. Yeah, I’m at 2311 North Robles Avenue. Yeah, I’d like to report a dangerous wild animal. A blue jay. I’m sorry, this is Animal Control. I don’t understand the laughter. No, the bird is not in my home. If he was in my home, I obviously would have called 911. Sir, I have no doubt that there are things that you’re frightened of. Being stuck in a dead-end public service job? Or your wife stepping out on you because you’re stuck in a dead-end public service job? Or spiders? Don’t you think I tried making cat noises?

Leonard (returning in a tee shirt and backwards cap): Too casual?
Sheldon: For an audience with the queen, yes. For an evening of passing a bottle of fortified wine around a flaming trash can, you look great. (Leonard leaves again. Sheldon draws a picture of a cats face and returns to making cat noises at the window.) What am I thinking? Whiskers!

Howard: I’m pushing play.
Sheldon: A minute.

Howard: If we don’t start soon, George Lucas is going to change it again.
Sheldon: This would go a lot faster if you put your trade school diploma to work and helped me set up this high frequency tone generator.

Howard: I have a Masters degree from M.I.T.
Sheldon: Yeah, but you’ve got a can-do attitude and that’s what’s important.

Raj: I really don’t get your problem with birds.
Sheldon: The question you should be asking is what is their problem with me? My first memory, a hummingbird dive-bombing my stroller to get at the apple juice in my sippy cup.

Raj: Hummingbirds are pretty.
Sheldon: Hummingbirds are the vampires of the flower world.

Raj: Still my first choice for an ankle tattoo. Or a dolphin, I go back and forth.
Sheldon: Age seven, a blood-thirsty chicken chases me up a tree. Age twelve, a magpie tries to steal the retainer out of my mouth. Age sixteen, a parrot in a pet store called me fat ass. Need I go on?

Howard: All right, Sheldon, your bird death ray is ready.
Sheldon: It’s not a death ray. It’s just a little ultrasonic blast to scare him off. Trust me, if I had a death ray, I wouldn’t be living here. I’d be in my lair enjoying the money the people of Earth gave me for not using my death ray. All right, and in three, two, one. (Switches on. All the windows shatter. The bird doesn’t move.)

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: This is ridiculous. I’m a grown man from Texas. This isn’t a terrifying bird like a swan or a goose. It’s just a blue jay. (Opens window) That’s a pretty big blue jay. (Closes window. Goes to cabinet. Comes out wearing a Boba Fett helmet and a broom) One, two, three. (Opens window) Go! Shoo! Am-scray, ird-bay! (Bird flies in window) Bird in the apartment! Bird in the apartment! (Sees the bird sitting in his place) No!

Amy: Sheldon, what do you expect us to do?
Sheldon: You’re biologists. Biology is the study of living things. That’s a living thing, get cracking.

Amy: Yeah, neither of us minored in bird-shooing.
Sheldon: Oh, come now. Your undergraduate work must have included a varmints and critters class.

Bernadette: Come back in, Sheldon, he’s not going to hurt you. He looks friendly. I think he might be someone’s pet.
Sheldon: No, Bernadette, don’t be a hero!

Bernadette: Oh, he’s a sweetie.
Sheldon: Yes. It’s very sweet. Now, slowly and carefully, flush him down the toilet.

Amy: Sheldon, the only way to get past this fear is to interact with it. Just like you did with the mailman.
Sheldon: Every year tens of people around the world are killed by birds. I’m not going to be another statistic.

Bernadette: Look how sweet he is. Come over and say hi. Come on. You can do it. Don’t be scared. Come on. Oh, just pet the bird, you big baby!
Sheldon: I did it! I actually did it. Okay, now flush him.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon has the bird on his arm.
Sheldon: It’s remarkable. All that time spent in fear. And for what? He’s magnificent. Oh, dear. I just realized I haven’t offered you a beverage.

Bernadette: Oh, it’s just like my grandma with her parrot. And after she lost her marbles with her remote control.
Sheldon: My phone’s on the desk over there. Take a picture of us together. Make it good enough to go on a mug, a mouse pad, and a calendar. If you were a dove, I’d call you Lovey-Dovey. Oh. Who am I kidding? This isn’t a moment for strict adherence to the literal. You’re just my little Lovey-Dovey, aren’t you?

Bernadette: I still think he looks like someone’s pet. Maybe we should put up posters.
Sheldon: Yes. It should have a big picture of him, and the words, is this your bird? Not anymore. We’re going to have so much fun together. You can carry messages to all my enemies. I can tie a string to your leg and fly you like a kite.

Amy: If you’re keeping him, I’ve got a cage you can borrow. One of the test monkeys slipped on a banana peel and broke his neck. It was both tragic and hysterical.
Sheldon: Nonsense. No. Lovey-Dovey doesn’t sleep in a cage. No. Lovey-Dovey sleeps in his very own nest, which I’m going to get off the windowsill and put in my room. Isn’t that right, LD? (Opens window. Bird flies out.) No. Where are you going? Come back, Lovey-Dovey! This is your home now! I already ordered 20 pounds of bird feed off of Amazon! He’s gone.

Amy: I’m sorry, Sheldon.
Sheldon: How could he do this to me? Get back here, you stupid bird, so I can love you!

Leonard: I am such an asthmatic dumbass. I had a weird night.
Sheldon: Mine was great. I’m going to be a mommy. (Reveals nest with an egg in it.)

Howard: Oh, that reminds me, I get fresh sheets tonight. Yay.
Sheldon: Well? What do you think of New Comic Book Night? Magic, huh?

Amy: Sheldon, I’m disappointed. As a brilliant man, you’re entitled to a vice. I could understand frequenting an opium den or hunting your fellow man for sport. But this? Lame-o.
Sheldon: Well, A, comic books employ storytelling through sequential art, a medium that dates back 17,000 years to the cave paintings of Lascaux, and B, you play the harp. Like that’s cool.

Leonard: Hey, can I talk to you about something? It’s a little awkward.
Sheldon: I know what this is about. Given the professional standstill you’re at, you’re wondering if this is the appropriate time to abandon your research and focus on teaching. Yes. And if I may suggest, consider changing disciplines. Yeah, to the humanities, perhaps history. One of the advantages of teaching history is that you don’t have to create things, you know, you just have to remember stuff that happened and then parrot it back. You could have fun with that.

Leonard: Yeah, that’s not it. Stuart’s kind of interested in Amy.
Sheldon: Oh, of course he is. She’s very interesting. Did you know, when she was 14, she severed the webbing between her own toes?

Leonard: No. He wanted me to find out if you’d have a problem with him asking her out.
Sheldon: I’m not sure how to respond, Leonard. I don’t own Amy. Can’t own a person. At least not since? 1863. President Lincoln freed the? Slaves! Come on Leonard, if you’re going to teach history, these are the kind of facts you’ll have to know.

Leonard: You know what? Never mind. I’m going to tell him it’s okay to ask her out.
Sheldon: The question is moot. There is no way that Stuart, an impoverished peddler of picture books, would be at all appealing to Amy Farrah Fowler, a noted neurobiologist capable of performing surgery on her own feet with nothing but nitrous oxide from cans of whipped cream as anesthesia.

Leonard: All right, but just for the record, I checked in with you to see how you’d feel about it.
Sheldon: Fine. The record shall so reflect. Now, getting back to the problem at hand, what to do with a washed-up experimental physicist.

Leonard: I am not washed-up.
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard. Lots of people love you and want to help you, but they can’t until you admit the problem.

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: Where’s Stuart?

Speccy Guy Behind Counter (sniggering): Out.
Sheldon: Who are you?

Dale: I don’t know. He went out for coffee. With a girl.
Sheldon: Oh, I guess I was wrong.

Leonard: You okay?
Sheldon: Am I okay? Leonard, I’m on a lifelong trajectory that includes a Nobel Prize and cities named after me, all four wisdom teeth fit comfortably in my mouth without need of extraction, and my bowel movements run like a German train schedule. Am I okay?

Leonard: A tribe of Abra-Comanches.
Sheldon: Flaming Spittoon. And for the record, I’m very disappointed in you cowpokes. We’re playing our inaugural round of Wild West and Witches, and I’m the only one who bothered to dress for the occasion. (Spits into a spittoon) Patooie.

Howard: We’re not wearing cowboy hats, Sheldon. It looks ridiculous.
Sheldon: And I suppose my boots and spurs are ridiculous, too?

Raj: Incredibly so.
Sheldon: Did it look ridiculous when we got the Satanimals pack and I dressed up as a Beelzebobcat?

Raj: Incredibly so.
Sheldon: All right, fine. Let’s just play.

Howard: Wait a minute. Are you telling me that Sheldon’s patented blend of condescension and no sex isn’t enough to hold on to a woman?
Sheldon: Cluck, cluck, cluck. What are we, ladies at a quilting bee? Or are we men playing a fantasy card game set in a magical frontier town?

Leonard: Hocus Pocus Pocahontas.
Sheldon: And may I point out it is the three of you who are obsessed with Stuart and Amy, not me. I think you need to ask yourselves who’s really being ridiculous here. (Walks away with spurs jangling)

Leonard: With a hologram? Nice. Hey, do you see this?
Sheldon: I’m in the matrix, Leonard, I see everything.

Howard: I thought you didn’t like Facebook anymore.
Sheldon: Don’t be silly. I’m a fan of anything that tries to replace actual human contact.

Raj: Please. You’re looking at Facebook to find out how their date went.
Sheldon: Really? You think I care if a man, what, shared a pumpkin latte with a dynamite lady?

Raj: You’re so full of it.
Sheldon: You are free to believe whatever you like. And unfriend Rajesh Koothrappali.

Leonard: Sheldon, why don’t you just acknowledge that you have feelings for Amy and you don’t want her going out with other men?
Sheldon: And unfriend Leonard Hofstadter.

Howard: Here’s a radical thought. Go old-school, challenge Stuart to a fight. I mean, nothing makes the ladies hotter than two skinny white guys swatting at each other with their eyes closed.
Sheldon: And unfriend Howard Wolowitz.

Leonard: That’s all of us. Can I use the laptop?
Sheldon: Why?

Penny (off): Who do we love?
Sheldon: Penny. (Knock, knock, knock)

Penny (off): Who do we love?
Sheldon: Penny. (Knock, knock, knock)

Penny (off): Who do we love?
Sheldon: Penny.

Penny: Hello, Sheldon. Come on in.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Penny: What’s up?
Sheldon: I came to ask if you would like to go on a date with me.

Penny: I’m sorry, what?
Sheldon: A date. You and me. Dining, dancing, perhaps you’d like to take in a prizefight.

Penny: God, are you trying to make Amy jealous?
Sheldon: No. Why is everyone so obsessed with Amy and Stuart? And whether or not they may be having more pumpkin lattes or intercourse tonight.

Penny: Okay, listen to me. Playing games is not gonna help get Amy back.
Sheldon: I am not trying to get her back. But, out of curiosity, what is a way?

Penny: All right, honey, let me tell you a story. There was a guy I liked, and I never told him how I felt. Eventually, he started going out with someone else, and I always regretted it. Do you see where I’m going with this?
Sheldon: I believe I do.

Penny: Mm.
Sheldon: I’m the guy.

Penny: You’re not the guy.
Sheldon: Are you sure? That would explain so much. Your constant presence in my apartment, that baffling dalliance with Leonard just to be near me, the way you call me sweetie all the time.

Penny: I call everyone sweetie.
Sheldon: You tramp.

Penny: Look, Sheldon, all I’m saying is strap on a pair and go talk to Amy.
Sheldon: Strap on a pair? Of what, skates?

Stuart: Don’t patronize me.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Excuse me. Pardon me. Pardon me. Excuse me. Hi, Stuart.

Stuart: Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Pardon me. Excuse me.

Amy: Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: The thought of you sitting in a darkened theatre with a character like Stuart is repellent. No offence, Stuart.

Stuart: Um, again…
Sheldon: Stuart, please. You’re being rude.

Amy: Anything else?
Sheldon: I believe I would like to alter the paradigm of our relationship.

Amy: I’m listening.
Sheldon: With the understanding that nothing changes whatsoever, physical or otherwise, I would not object to us no longer characterizing you as not my girlfriend.

Amy: Interesting. Now try it without the quadruple negative.
Sheldon: You’re being impossible.

Amy: Hi, Stuart.
Sheldon: Fine. Amy, will you be my girlfriend?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Well, that’s enough of that. Sorry to interrupt. You two enjoy your date. Here’s a dollar for your troubles. Get yourself some Sour Patch Kids.

Amy: How did you get into my apartment?
Sheldon: Wow. Is that the kind of nagging I can expect now that you’re my girlfriend? Good thing I drew this up.

Amy: What’s that?
Sheldon: I present to you the relationship agreement. A binding covenant that, in its 31 pages, enumerates, iterates and codifies the rights and responsibilities of Sheldon Lee Cooper, here and after known as the boyfriend, and Amy Farrah Fowler, here and after known as the girlfriend.

Amy: It’s so romantic.
Sheldon: Mutual indemnification always is. Why don’t you start perusing while I set up my notary stamp.

Amy: Section 5: Hand-holding. Hand-holding is only allowed under the following circumstances. A: Either party is in danger of falling off a cliff, precipice or ledge. B: Either party is deserving of a hearty handshake after winning a Nobel Prize. C: Moral support during flu shots. Seems a bit restrictive.
Sheldon: Feel free to retain a lawyer.

Bernadette: We should play limbo next. No one beats me at limbo.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Bernadette.

Amy: That’s my boyfriend. It’s open!
Sheldon: I got a splinter.

Amy: What do you want me to do about it?
Sheldon: Relationship agreement Section 4, Boo-boos and Ouchies. You have to take care of it.

Penny: Okay. If you can’t get me to stop eating your food, what makes you think you can get me to stop using your Wi-Fi?
Sheldon: I believe that you’re capable of great change. Like when I finally got you to stop saying Valentimes Day.

Penny: Sure.
Sheldon: In the year 2000, Pope John Paul II was named an honorary Harlem Globetrotter.

Leonard: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: You asked Penny if she wanted to hear something weird.

Leonard: Yeah, because I have something weird to tell her.
Sheldon: Oh. I thought it was a game.

Leonard: There’s this guy, Jimmy Speckerman, who used to torment me in high school. He sent me a message through Facebook. He’s in town and wants to have drinks.
Sheldon: Okay, Penny, if it were a game, here are your choices. An e-mail from an old acquaintance, or the head of one of the largest religious institutions in the world slam dunking to Sweet Georgia Brown. Pick.

Penny: Basketball Pope.
Sheldon: And that’s how it’s done.

Leonard: I don’t know.
Sheldon: Is this the fellow who peed in your Hawaiian Punch?

Leonard: No, that was a different guy.
Sheldon: Was he the one who wedgied you so hard, your testicle reascended, and you spent your whole Christmas break waiting for it to come back down?

Leonard: No, that was a different, different guy.
Sheldon: Was he the one who used your head to open a nut?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Oh, oh, oh. Was he the one who made you eat your arm hair?

Leonard: I don’t know.
Sheldon: You know, the holidays are just around the corner. Maybe he wants to see if he can lodge the other testicle up there.

Leonard: It’s two a.m. What are you doing up?
Sheldon: Nobel Prize acceptance ceremony streaming live from Stockholm.

Leonard: Sure. You want to see what all the scientists are wearing this year.
Sheldon: Look at these men. They’ve managed to win the top science prize in the world with no more understanding of the quantum underpinnings of the expansion of the early universe than God gave a goose. You should pay attention, Leonard. Someday this could be you up there.

Leonard: Thanks.
Sheldon: So, what’s got you up? Did you have a bad clam?

Leonard: I didn’t have clams.
Sheldon: I don’t watch you 24 hours a day. I don’t know what you do.

Leonard: It’s this Jimmy Speckerman thing. I can’t decide if I should agree to see him or not. Of course that might be because the last time I ran into him, he made me floss with my own shoelaces.
Sheldon: Wear loafers. Look at Dr. Saul Perlmutter up there, clutching that Nobel Prize. What’s the matter, Saul? You afraid someone’s going to steal it? Like you stole Einstein’s cosmological constant?

Leonard: You know what? I am tired of living in fear of this guy. I’m gonna go see him and finally say all the things I should have said in high school. You know, pick on someone your own size, you did not have sex with my mother, and yes, I do know why I’m hitting myself.”
Sheldon: Oh, now Perlmutter’s shaking the King’s hand. Yeah, check for your watch, Gustaf. He might have lifted it.

Jimmy: Hi. Fellas. Hey, can I get a beer? Wow. Look at you. Little Leonard Hofstadter. I hear you’re a big-time scientist now.
Sheldon: And there’s the first zinger. Ouch.

Jimmy: Yeah, congratulations.
Sheldon: Congratulations? The Newcomb medal? Oh, please. That’s the scientific equivalent of a smiley face sticker on your homework.

Jimmy: From what I read, it sounded like a big deal.
Sheldon: Oh, good Lord, are we going to stand here and listen to him tear Leonard apart like this?

Raj: Hey, I won a Newcomb medal, too.
Sheldon: My point.

Jimmy: Okay, here it is. I have this great money-making idea. I just need a gear head to get it to the finish line.
Sheldon: Technically, Howard’s the gear head. Leonard’s just a dime store laser jockey.

Jimmy: Aw, come on, you can figure it out. You’re like the smartest guy I’ve ever known.
Sheldon: The smartest? All right, you know, I may not have a firm grasp on sarcasm, but even I know that was a doozy. Leonard, you can’t live in fear of this man forever.

Leonard: Sheldon, I got this.
Sheldon: You clearly don’t. What my spineless friend lacks the courage to say is you’re a terrible person who took advantage of his tiny size, his uncoordinated nature and his congenital lack of masculinity.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Leonard, I platonically love you, man, but face it, you’re a mess.

Leonard: I think what he’s trying to say is that maybe in high school you picked on me a little bit.
Sheldon: A little bit? The man Super Glued Hershey’s Kisses to your nipples.

Jimmy: What is that?
Sheldon: This is a list of your heinous acts against Leonard. One of which is certainly the cause of him wetting his bed well into his teens.

Leonard: Nancy. You called me Nancy for three years.
Sheldon: You really need to work on your penmanship.

Leonard: It wasn’t fun for me.
Sheldon: You’re being too kind, Leonard. You ruined him.

Raj: That was pretty badass, dude.
Sheldon: I help the weak. It’s yet another way I’m exactly like Batman.

Leonard: Here’s your cocoa.
Sheldon: Oh, half and half instead of whole milk?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Heated to precisely 183 degrees?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Seven little marshmallows, no more no less?

Leonard: You got one for good luck. (Knock on door) I’ll get it.
Sheldon: One for good luck. Must be the kind of math they do at Princeton.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Sheldon, we can’t let him drive.
Sheldon: Then take away his keys and make him wander the streets with the other drunks.

Jimmy: Not really, no. It’s funny, huh, Leonard? Back in school, I was the winner and you were the loser. And now we’re reversed. You’re the winner.
Sheldon: You’d think a winner could make a decent cup of cocoa.

Leonard: Yeah. It kind of rekindles your faith in the basic goodness of people.
Sheldon: You know what would be nice?

Raj: What’s that?
Sheldon: As a symbolic gesture to all the bullies who’ve tormented us for years, we open our home to Jimmy and once he’s asleep we kill him. I said it would be nice, I didn’t say we should do it.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Leonard.

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: In case it comes up again, this right here is an imposition.

Leonard: What was I supposed to do? He needed a place to sleep it off.
Sheldon: You’re soft. This world’s going to chew you up and spit you out.

Leonard: Morning, Jimmy.
Sheldon: Oh, there it is, tacos.

Jimmy: It’s good. You really know your way around a kitchen, Nancy.
Sheldon: I’m not going to say I told you so, but we could have killed him.

Leonard: I might kill him right now.
Sheldon: The Dark Knight has your back. He’s scared, but he has your back.

Leonard: No, you’re done. I want you out of my apartment right now.
Sheldon: Well said, Boy Wonder.

Jimmy: Or what?
Sheldon: Don’t answer that. It’s a trick question. I speak from experience.

Scene: Running down the stairwell.
Sheldon: You did it, Leonard, you stood up to your bully.

Leonard: Yeah, I feel pretty good about myself. You think we can outrun him?
Sheldon: I don’t need to outrun him, I just need to outrun you.

Raj: Ordinary, yet I sense it is dripping with magical potential.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord. A man pops out for a moment to evacuate his bowels and catch up on the adventures of the Caped Crusader, only to emerge and discover his apartment has been transformed into a cabaret.

Raj: I’m telling you, dude, there’s a seat on the Hogwarts Express with your name on it.
Sheldon: This is how you’re going to entertain your little cousin and his friends? By lying to them?

Howard: How is this lying?
Sheldon: A magic show is an inherently deceitful proposition. This is an ordinary top hat. You’ve chosen that card freely. I do not have a set of lock picks lodged in my keister.

Raj: Can’t you just enjoy the wonder, Sheldon? Why must you peek behind the curtain? Or up the butt?
Sheldon: If we poison the critical thinking faculties of children by telling them that rabbits come out of hats, then we create adults who believe in astrology and homeopathy and that Ryan Reynolds was a better choice for Green Lantern than lovable rogue Nathan Fillion.

Howard: Don’t be so hard on him. It’s natural to be a little cranky when you have a quarter in your ear!
Sheldon: Coins lodged in body parts is not a source of amusement. When I was five, Billy Sparks put a Mexican peso up my nose.

Howard: How is that not amusing?
Sheldon: It’s still there. Takes me 45 minutes to get through airport security. (Storms out)

Penny: Ooh, look who’s out on a date. Pasadena’s favourite power couple, Shamy.
Sheldon: And that is the answer to the question, what is wrong with eating at The Cheesecake Factory?

Penny: That is so hot.
Sheldon: All right, without objection, the minutes of the previous date are considered read and agreed to. Any new business?

Amy: How was your day?
Sheldon: Superb. This morning I made a palindrome with my Alpha-Bits. Nice hat, Bob Tahecin.

Amy: Sounds like you hit the ground running. I have a bit of good news myself. My most recent paper on how a cooperative long-term potentiation can map memory sequences in dendritic branches made the cover of Neuron.
Sheldon: Ooh! Speaking of good news, somebody just hit 100 Twitter followers.

Amy: That’s nice. Anyway, I’ve been dreaming of this day for a long time.
Sheldon: Yeah, me, too. Triple digits, I’m not gonna lie, feels pretty good.

Amy: Sheldon, I’m the sole author on a paper being published in a distinguished journal that may change the course of my field.
Sheldon: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Ooh, 101! Air’s getting a bit thin up here.

Amy: Give me a minute. I’m gonna go wash up.
Sheldon: Well, that’s odd. We both washed up when we came in. It’s probably a euphemism for urination.

Penny: Sheldon, what is wrong with you?
Sheldon: Not much. Although, I can be faulted for being overly fond of koala bears. I don’t know what it is, when they smart munching on eucalyptus, I just melt inside.

Penny: Okay, Amy just told you some exciting news, and you acted like it was no big deal.
Sheldon: Oh, I see why you’re confused. No, her news sounded important, but what you’re forgetting is, it was an achievement in the field of biology. That’s all about yucky, squishy things.

Penny: Honey, she’s upset. You’re her boyfriend. You have to at least try to be excited by the things she’s excited by.
Sheldon: What if they simply don’t excite me?

Penny: Well, just smile and think about koalas.
Sheldon: She’d see right through that. We go to the zoo all the time. She knows my koala face. And for future reference, it’s this.

Leonard: Oh, a little Red Dead Redemption, huh?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: How come you’re not doing a mission? You’re just wandering around.
Sheldon: Had a rough night. I thought I’d go for a walk and clear my head.

Leonard: Some people go outside and do that.
Sheldon: It’s after nine o’clock, at this hour the streets of Pasadena are teeming with drunken sailors and alley cats.

Leonard: You want to talk about it?
Sheldon: No. I think I’ll just go in this saloon and drink my troubles away.

Leonard: You know digital alcohol is never a solution. What’s going on?
Sheldon: Hard as this may be to believe, it’s possible that I’m not boyfriend material.

Leonard: Glad I was sitting down for that. Did you and Amy get in a fight?
Sheldon: Amy had a fight. I was being perfectly reasonable. I’m gonna have a whiskey. Do you want anything?

Leonard: No, I can’t. I’m playing Grand Theft Auto later. Look, I’m no expert in women.
Sheldon: I’ll say.

Leonard: That’s not necessary when someone’s trying to help you.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. It’s the alcohol talking. Go on.

Leonard: Sometimes with women you want to listen to what upsets them and then show them that you can grow and change.
Sheldon: Nuts to that. What else you got?

Leonard: I don’t know what to tell you. Buy her something.
Sheldon: How does that work?

Leonard: Well, you skip over any attempt to repair your emotional connection and you win back her affection with an empty financial gesture.
Sheldon: Well, that approach has Sheldon Cooper written all over it.

Leonard: Glad I could help.
Sheldon: It’s appreciated. And if you ever manage to find a woman again, I’ll be glad to return the favour.

Scene: A jewellery store.
Sheldon: I don’t think there’s anything in this jewellery store that Amy would appreciate more than the humidifier we were just looking at at Sears.

Penny: Oh, my God, now I know what I sound like to you when I say stupid stuff.
Sheldon: Ooh, a pocket watch.

Penny: Okay, I don’t think Amy wants a pocket watch.
Sheldon: No, but maybe she wants a man with a pocket watch.

Penny: Still saying stupid stuff. Ooh, does she like bracelets?
Sheldon: Well, she’s very fond of her silver one that says allergic to penicillin. Maybe they have a dressier version of that?

Penny: (Snorts) Trust me, we are not a couple.
Sheldon: Excuse me. I don’t see why you get to snort derisively and point that out. You’d be lucky to land a fella like me.

Penny: Fine, go ahead.
Sheldon: (Snorts) Trust me, we are not a couple.

Assistant: Yes. Channel set baguettes, 20 points total weight.
Sheldon: Remarkable. Diamonds, crystallized carbon. Every day, people go to the grocery store and come home with sacks full of carbon in the form of charcoal briquettes that they toss in their barbeques and set on fire. But just because you’ve got some carbon with the atoms stacked neatly, you expect me to plunk down thousands of dollars.

Assistant: Actually, that’s only 750. Everything’s on sale.
Sheldon: Really. Talk to me about that pocket watch.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: What time did you tell Amy to be here?

Penny: Eight o’clock. (Sheldon checks pocket watch) Sheldon, that pocket watch is ridiculous.
Sheldon: Nonsense. I look like a train conductor. Under what pretext did you lure her here?

Penny: I said, hey, want to come over and hang out?
Sheldon: Good, good, if you had said something clever, she might’ve gotten suspicious.

Penny: Sheldon, you’re up.
Sheldon: Thank you. Amy, I’d like to apologize. Your accomplishment was impressive. And I’m proud of you.

Amy: We both know that’s your koala face.
Sheldon: I told you.

Amy: Of course I do, I’m a princess, and this is my tiara!
Sheldon: You’re right, the tiara was too much.

Leonard: You feel like trying something new for dinner? Maybe Indian, Tex-Mex?
Sheldon: You ever wonder how humans would be different if they evolved from lizards instead of mammals?

Leonard: Okay, let’s talk about that.
Sheldon: As you know, lizards, cold-blooded animals, lack the ability to sense temperature. But they do move more sluggishly when it’s cold. So, lizard weathermen would say things like, bring a sweater, it’s slow outside. I love my mind.

Leonard: We all do. Now, how about dinner?
Sheldon: Oh, I would assume we’d enjoy insects or smaller lizards. We could also pull each other’s tails off and grill them, they’ll just grow back. Oh! My life-size cardboard Mr. Spock is here! I know he wouldn’t care for an outburst of human emotion, but, oh goodie, oh goodie, oh goodie. Commander Spock requesting permission to be unfolded.

Leonard (seeing Penny’s door open and the girls inside): Excuse me.
Sheldon: Permission granted, Commander.

Bernadette: Ooh!
Sheldon: Oh, no! They sent the wrong Spock! Live long and suck it, Zachary Quinto.

Scene: The apartment. The guys are playing a board game.
Sheldon: Mm. I want to build a road, but I need wood. Do either of you fellows have wood? (Raj and Howard snigger) I don’t understand the laughter. The object of Settlers of Catan is to build roads and settlements. To do so requires wood. Now, I have sheep; I need wood. Who has wood for my sheep?

Raj: I heard you call her Brown Sugar. In my book, that’s defilement.
Sheldon: You want to know my opinion?

Leonard: Oh, boy, do I?
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Howard: No.
Sheldon: All right, then. The reason you’re fixated on a good-natured simpleton like Penny is that she’s the exact opposite of your first romantic attachment, your brilliant yet intimidating mother.

Leonard: Where on earth did you get that from?
Sheldon: It’s in her book, Needy Baby, Greedy Baby.

Leonard: That doesn’t make it true.
Sheldon: It’s called non-fiction for a reason, Leonard.

Raj: Because she’s great in everything.
Sheldon: Now, where were we? Oh, yes. Does anyone have any wood? Oh, come on! I just want wood. Why are you making it so hard?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: And now that I have some wood, I’m going to begin the erection of my settlement.

Raj: I guess it didn’t go well.
Sheldon: We don’t know that. Not to a certainty. All we know is that Leonard is home.

Howard (as Leonard groans loudly in his room): How about now?
Sheldon: Again, not enough evidence. For all we know, he’s being murdered. Now, back to our game.

Raj: You were in the middle of an erection.
Sheldon: Oh, of course. It’s right here in my hand.

Scene: The apartment. Leonard is sneaking back in.
Sheldon: Leonard?

Leonard: Yeah, hi, hi. How’s it going?
Sheldon: Uh, can’t complain. Thanks for asking. Well, what were you doing out at three o’clock in the morning?

Leonard: Well, uh, uh, what are you doing up?
Sheldon: I was using the bathroom.

Leonard: Yeah, well, so was I.
Sheldon: Really? I didn’t see you in there.

Leonard: Obviously, when I saw that you were in ours, I went and used another one.
Sheldon: Where?

Leonard: The, the gas station across the street.
Sheldon: In your pyjamas?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Without shoes?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: On a cold winter’s night?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Seems unlikely. Did you bring your asthma inhaler?

Leonard: Uh, uh, uh, yes, I did.
Sheldon: Well, then, I guess it’s plausible. Hang on a second, mister.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: After you used the facilities at the gas station, did you make a purchase?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: It’s customary, when using the rest room at a retail establishment, to make a small purchase. Did you?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Here’s two dollars. Go buy some beef jerky.

Leonard: I don’t want beef jerky.
Sheldon: It’s not about you. It’s about a poor immigrant from Pakistan trying to make his way in America by working the graveyard shift at the Colorado Boulevard Chevron.

Leonard: Fine.
Sheldon: Needy Baby, Greedy Baby indeed.

Scene: The Cheesecake Factory.
Sheldon: Leonard will be here in a moment. He’s looking for a different parking space.

Howard: Why?
Sheldon: We were next to a car with an ask me about my grandchildren bumper sticker, and I was afraid if we ran into them on the way out, I’d be obligated to do so.

Amy: Me, too. Out of deference to them, let’s not flaunt our happy relationship.
Sheldon: You have a keen insight into the human heart, Amy Farrah Fowler.

Leonard: We are next to a Suburu with a Gore/Lieberman bumper sticker.
Sheldon: Well, I doubt they’d want to talk about that, so we’re fine.

Penny: Is the point that you don’t know when to let something go?
Sheldon: People, people, please, before you say something you both regret, I’d like to place my order.

Leonard: Oh, that is not true.
Sheldon: I’ve got to go with Leonard on this. He is wrong more than anyone I know.

Leonard: Well…
Sheldon: Leonard, promise me that when our new waitress comes over, you will not start a complicated on-again, off-again relationship with her, because I am very, very hungry.

Leonard: What? Yeah.
Sheldon: This is a disaster. I distinctly ordered the Leonard Nimoy Mr. Spock cardboard standee. Why would I feel safer with Zachary Quinto at the foot of my bed?

Leonard: I don’t know, he was pretty badass on Heroes.
Sheldon: You’re right, I’ll give him a shot.

Leonard: Yes, and I think we should go anyway.
Sheldon: No, can’t do it. Sorry, Quinto, you’re going back.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is making a video.
Sheldon: Hello. I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper, and welcome to the premiere episode of Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun with Flags. Over the next 52 weeks, you and I are going to explore the dynamic world of vexillology.

Amy: Hang on, Dr. C. What’s vexillology?
Sheldon: Vexillology is the study of flags.

Amy: Cool. I think I just learned something.
Sheldon: Did you have fun doing it?

Amy: I’ll say.
Sheldon: Fun and information are two sides to this video podcast, not unlike the only two-sided state flag, Oregon. Oh, look. Hello, Mr. Beaver. In future episodes, we’ll answer some burning questions. What’s the only non-rectangular flag? What animal appears most often on flags? What animal appears second most often on flags? And more.

Amy: Sweet!
Sheldon: Why are you waving a white flag?

Amy: I’m surrendering to fun.
Sheldon: Now, today’s episode of Fun with Flags is not fun, but it is important. Flags: you gotta know how to hold ’em, you gotta know how to fold ’em. Let’s start by identifying the parts of our flag. This edge is the hoist, and it’s used to…

Leonard: Excuse me, sorry, excuse me.
Sheldon: Cut. Did you not see we are rolling?

Leonard: Sorry. I’m having dinner with Penny. I have to get out of here.
Sheldon: And I have flag knowledge that I have to get out of here!

Amy: You okay?
Sheldon: No, I’m a little rattled. But like the flag over Fort Sumter, I’m still here. And, take two. Hello. I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper, and welcome to the premiere episode of Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun with Flags. Over the next 52 weeks, you and I are going to explore the dynamic world of vexillology.

Amy: Hang on, Dr. Cooper. What’s vexillology?
Sheldon: Vexillology is… why is there a face on that flag?

Amy: It’s Ferdinand T. Flag. I thought he might help bring in some younger viewers.
Sheldon: Confound it! You’re right, it’s brilliant. Let’s take it from the top.

Leonard: Night. Attaboy, Hofstadter. Nothing gets the ladies hotter than software development analogies. Hey, I’m back.
Sheldon: Cut! Take 47.

Scene: Sheldon and Raj’s office.
Sheldon: Here’s an interesting fact about flags.

Raj: I will take that action.
Sheldon: The flags of Liechtenstein and Haiti were identical by coincidence, a fact that wasn’t discovered until they competed against each other at the 1936 Olympics. And thankfully, their embarrassment was overshadowed by the rise of Fascism.

Howard: Oh, yeah.
Sheldon: Speaking of cowboys, do you know what country has not one but two cows on its flag? The tiny landlocked nation of Andorra. Oh, the next classic episode of Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun with Flags is writing itself.

Amy: For someone who has a machine that can travel anywhere in time and space, Doctor Who sure does have a thing for modern-day London.
Sheldon: Careful, it’s that kind of sass that can get a person uninvited to this year’s Who Con.

Penny: Even Doctor Who.
Sheldon: All right, that’s it. Who Con, you’re out.

Amy: What’s baffling me is what you could’ve possibly put on the list. Hair too golden? Laugh too musical? World too much a better place for her mere presence in it?
Sheldon: How about constantly talks with food in her mouth?

Siri: You are most certainly welcome, sexy.
Sheldon: Well done, Dr. Koothrappali.

Raj: I’m sorry?
Sheldon: You’ve taken a great evolutionary leap by abandoning human interaction and allowing yourself to romantically bond with a soulless machine. Kudos.

Raj: I haven’t bonded with it.
Sheldon: Oh, no, of course. I understand. You’re afraid the world isn’t ready for your taboo love. Your secret’s safe with me.

Barry Kripke: Cooper.
Sheldon: Kripke.

Penny: Good night, you.
Sheldon: Guten Tag, das YouTube. Ich bin ein Bavarian.

Amy: Und ich bin eine pretzel!
Sheldon: Und dis is Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun…

Amy: Mit…
Sheldon: Flags.

Leonard: Aaargh. What the hell?
Sheldon: Emergency preparedness drill.

Leonard: Oh, no, come on!
Sheldon: Yeah, you know how it works. Once a quarter, keep our readiness up. Now, rise and shine, sleepy head. Half the town is probably dead.

Leonard: I have to get a lock for my door.
Sheldon: I think you’ll like the drill tonight. I’ve tried to make it fun. Each of these cards contains a detailed scenario of a possible apocalyptic event. Everything from wild fires to a surprise invasion by Canada. Pick a catastrophe, any catastrophe.

Leonard: Sheldon, Canada is not going to invade California.
Sheldon: Yeah, really? You think those hippies in Washington and Oregon can stop them?

Leonard: Fine.
Sheldon: All righty! An 8.2 magnitude earthquake devastates Pasadena, reducing mighty edifices to dust, engulfing the city in flames. The streets flow with blood and echo with the cries of the wounded. Oh, excellent choice. Now, put on your hard hat and safety vest.

Leonard: Oh, fun. I get to spend another night in front of our apartment dressed like one of the Village People.
Sheldon: You make that joke every three months. I still don’t get it. Leonard, wait. What are you doing?

Leonard: I don’t know, what am I doing?
Sheldon: Look around you, there’s hypothetical broken glass everywhere. Really? You’re going to face Armageddon without your orthotics? All right, your choice. (Grabs him and pushes him over) Uh-oh, hypothetical aftershock!

Leonard: Aah!
Sheldon: And that’s why we wear hard hats.

Raj: How’d you do?
Sheldon: I’ll tell you exactly how he did. Readiness: unsatisfactory. Follows direction: barely. Attitude: a little too much. Overall: not only will he probably die in a fiery inferno, his incessant whining would most certainly spoil everyone else’s day.

Leonard: You know what, I’m so tired I can’t even think straight. I’m going home. Will one of you guys give this nutbag a ride back later?
Sheldon: You can’t go home. You have to take me to the dentist at four o’clock.

Leonard: Oh, can’t you take the bus to the dentist?
Sheldon: Of course I can. It’s coming back under the residual effects of the anaesthesia, that’s the problem. Two years ago after a deep gum cleaning, I thought I got on a bus but somehow wound up on a booze cruise to Mexico.

Raj: They put you under for a cleaning?
Sheldon: Yeah, they have to, I’m a biter.

Leonard: Whatever, Sheldon. I’m exhausted. I’m not taking you to the dentist.
Sheldon: Wrong, sir. Wrong. Under section 37B of the roommate agreement, miscellaneous duties, you are obligated to take me to the dentist. See? It’s right here after providing a confirmation sniff on questionable dairy products.”

Leonard: You know what, I am sick of the roommate agreement. It’s ridiculous. I’m your roommate, not your chauffeur. You know, I had better things to do yesterday than drive you all the way to the good model train store in Garden Grove because the one in Pasadena has gotten too big for its britches.
Sheldon: Well, it has. Ask anybody.

Leonard: I don’t care. I’m done.
Sheldon: Hold on. Are you saying that you want to invoke Clause 209?

Leonard: I don’t know what that is, but if it means I can go home and sleep, then yes.
Sheldon: Think carefully here. Clause 209 suspends our friendship, and strips down the roommate agreement to its bare essentials. Our responsibilities toward each other would only be rent, utilities and a perfunctory chin jut of recognition as we pass in the hall. (Demonstrating) ‘Sup?

Leonard: Where do I sign?
Sheldon: Right here. Use your finger.

Leonard: There. Done.
Sheldon: All right. That’s it. We are now no longer companions, boon or otherwise. We are now merely acquaintances. To amend the words of Toy Story, you have not got a friend in me.

Leonard: I’m gonna go home and take a nap.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, tell it to someone who cares.

Raj: Maybe your nickname should be Brown Dynamite.
Sheldon: Hello, dear friends. And Dr. Hofstadter.

Leonard: ‘Sup?
Sheldon: ‘Sup? My apologies. I would’ve been here sooner, but the bus kept stopping for other people to get on it.

Amy: I saved you a dumpling.
Sheldon: Oh, your concern for me is touching. It will serve you well when you take me to the dentist tomorrow.

Amy: I’m sorry, Sheldon, I’m busy. I’m right in the middle of my addiction study. I’ve got a lab full of alcoholic monkeys, and tomorrow’s the day we switch them to O’Doul’s.
Sheldon: You’re my girlfriend and you’re not going to cater to my every need? Oh, where’d the magic go?

Howard: Absolutely. But when Ma’s hips give out, you’re up, kid.
Sheldon: Well, if Amy’s too busy, that gives the rest of you an opportunity to make my life easier, thus assuring yourselves a footnote in my memoirs, tentatively entitled You’re Welcome, Mankind. All right, then, just shout when you hear the task you want to undertake. Uh, dentist. Okay, we can circle back to that one. Um, well, who wants to take me Wednesday morning to get new heels put on my dress shoes? Anyone? Oh. That one had hoot written all over it. Um, all right, uh, dermatologist? Allergist? Podiatrist? Supercuts? Okay, okay, here’s a fun one. Um, I need a new picture frame and I have a hankering for Swedish meatballs. Who wants to spend the day with me at IKEA?

Raj: Their meatballs are pretty good.
Sheldon: What’s that?

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: Hello, Stuart.

Stuart: Oh, hey, Sheldon. Can I help you find something today?
Sheldon: No, no. I was just sitting at home thinking about how it might be nice to catch up with my ninth favourite person.

Stuart: Ninth?
Sheldon: You moved up one. My pen pal in Somalia was kidnapped by pirates. So, uh, how are you?

Stuart: Uh, not so good. My shrink just killed himself and blamed me in the note.
Sheldon: Great. Great. So, what’s new with your family? How’s your mother? Is she alive?

Stuart: Yeah.
Sheldon: And your father? Alive?

Stuart: Yes.
Sheldon: How about your grandparents, they alive?

Stuart: No.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m so sorry for your loss. On a cheerier note, I have a teeth-cleaning appointment this afternoon. What do you say you take me over there, buddy boy?

Stuart: I’m sorry, you want me to take you to the dentist?
Sheldon: Yes. And now, I can’t make any promises, but that’s the sort of thing that gets a fella on the short list for the number eight friend slot.

Stuart: Sheldon, I’m working. I can’t take you to the dentist. Also, and I can’t stress this enough, I don’t want to take you to the dentist.
Sheldon: Can’t help a friend out in a time of need, huh? I see where your therapist was coming from.

Leonard (to Sheldon, entering): ‘Sup?
Sheldon: ‘Sup?

Leonard: Hey, did you ever make it to the dentist?
Sheldon: Not necessary. No. I found a service that’ll send a van to your house for a teeth cleaning. Mostly they cater to dogs, but the fellow on the phone seemed to have an open mind.

Leonard: All right, Sheldon, if you need me to take you to the dentist, I will take you to the dentist.
Sheldon: Are you suggesting that you’ve come to your senses and wish to re-establish the mutual benefits that stem from full participation in the roommate agreement?

Raj: Ooh, Sock Mouth’s got him on the ropes.
Sheldon: I will admit nothing of the sort. And now if you’ll excuse me, I have to call my dentist and see if I can also get my hair shampooed and my nails clipped.

Penny: Because last month, I sent the electric company a Starbucks gift card, an apology note, and a few snapshots of me in a bra.
Sheldon: Power failure. Implementing power-failure protocol.

Leonard: What happened to all your glow-in-the-dark-emergency-exit stuff you had painted on the floor?
Sheldon: Oh, that was wildly carcinogenic. Anyway, it’s too bad you’re no longer entitled to the full benefits of my friendship, because I happen to be extremely prepared for such an emergency. Please try not to see anything by this light. It’s not for you.

Leonard: It’s just a blackout, I’m sure the power will be back on soon.
Sheldon: And I’m sure some fool in the Donner party said the snow would stop any day now. I like to think they ate him first.

Penny: You know, I got some candles in my apartment.
Sheldon: But candles? During a blackout? Are you mad? That’s a fire hazard. No, Pasadena Water and Power recommends the far safer glow stick.

Leonard (pulling out a toy lightsabre): You call that a glow stick? That is a glow stick. Come on, let’s go.
Sheldon: Before you go, consider this. Not only do I have a deep-cycle marine battery power source which is more than capable of running our entertainment system, I also have all 61 episodes of the BBC series Red Dwarf and Fiddle-Faddle. All yours if you’re willing to reinstate the roommate agreement.

Penny: I’ve got wine at my place and some bubble wrap we could pop.
Sheldon: Oh, he’ll be back. Wine and a girl in the dark, he’s gonna be bored out of his mind.

Penny: Ugh. Well, lucky for you, there’s nothing else to do right now.
Sheldon: Excuse me, Leonard.

Leonard: Since when don’t you knock? It’s like the only good thing about you.
Sheldon: Social niceties have been suspended, Leonard. We’re in a state of a emergency. The world has descended into darkened turmoil. Lawlessness and savagery are the order of the day.

Leonard: Fine, what is it?
Sheldon: I’m making s’mores. I wanted to alert you in case you smelled caramelizing marshmallows and thought a nearby candy factory was on fire.

Leonard: S’mores, huh? Good for you.
Sheldon: Yes, or good for us if you sign here and reinstate the full roommate agreement.

Leonard: No, thanks. I’m good.
Sheldon: Really? Huh! Okay. In that case, I will have a s’more by myself. And then I’m gonna have s’more. By myself.

Leonard: I thought you said candles were dangerous.
Sheldon: This is a Bunsen burner. I’m a scientist, I know what I’m doing. Oh, drat. (His s’more is on fire. He dunks it in a glass of water.) Aw. It took me a gallon of urine to make that water.

Leonard: Listen, Sheldon, this is stupid. I don’t see why we can’t be friends. And I’m willing to drive you around and help you out with stuff. I just don’t want to do it because of some silly roommate agreement.
Sheldon: What are you proposing?

Leonard: That we go back to the way things were. But when I do something for you, you show a little appreciation.
Sheldon: And how would I do that?

Leonard: You say thank you.
Sheldon: Every time?

Leonard: It’s not crazy.
Sheldon: Counter-proposal. We reinstate the full roommate agreement with the following addendum, in the spirit of Mother’s Day or Father’s Day, once a year, we set aside day to celebrate all your contributions to my life, both actual and imagined by you. We could call it Leonard’s Day.

Leonard: I kind of like the sound of that.
Sheldon: Of course you do. It’s about you, like everything else. (Lights come back on) Oh, thank goodness. I don’t think I had it in me to make another glass of water.

Leonard: So, do I get breakfast in bed on Leonard’s Day?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Can I sit in your spot?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Can I control the thermostat?
Sheldon: No.

Leonard: Do I get a card?
Sheldon: Of course you get a card. It’s Leonard’s Day.

Leonard: Really. Who do you think did that, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t know. But whoever that mystery man was, you should be eternally grateful, for without him, there would be no Leonard’s Day.

Penny: Leonard’s Day?
Sheldon: Oh, no pressure. Just get him a crummy card, you’re good.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, I think I’ve come up with a fun way to get young people interested in science. Physics Mad-Libs. Now, give me a number.

Leonard: Five.
Sheldon: Uh-huh. And an irrational constant.

Howard: E.
Sheldon: And a funny Greek letter.

Raj: Gamma.
Sheldon: I said funny.

Raj: Upsilon?
Sheldon: Good one. And an electrical charge.

Leonard: Positive.
Sheldon: Ha. Perfect. Okay. Get this. Professor Jones told the symposium he had a new method for calculating the mass of a muon. Five times the limit of E to the upsilon as in a (laughs uncontrollably). Okay. No, no. I’ll start over. Professor (laughs again)

Howard: I haven’t seen him laugh that hard since the day Leonard made that multiplication error.
Sheldon: Oh, Oh, Lord, that multiplication error! He thought he carried the one. But he didn’t.

Leonard: It’s not funny. That mistake got published.
Sheldon: Stop! I’m going to wet myself!

Leonard: Told ya.
Sheldon: Oh, President Siebert, I assume you’d like to respond to one of the suggestions I put in the box by your office.

Seibert: No, and stop installing suggestion boxes everywhere.
Sheldon: You don’t like written suggestions. You don’t like when I give them to you while we’re urinating in the men’s room. If I didn’t know any better, I’d say that you’re one of those stubborn people who are not open to suggestions.

Seibert: Dr. Cooper, the physics department chair tells me you’re refusing to take your vacation.
Sheldon: I don’t need a vacation.

Seibert: You’re obligated to take one. And I’d also like you to know the most-often received suggestion in my suggestion box you installed without asking me is can Dr. Cooper take a vacation? Okay, settled, then. I’ll see you all on Monday, except for you.
Sheldon: But if I don’t come into work, what am I supposed to do with myself?

Seibert: Read, rest, travel. I hear Afghanistan is nice this time of year.
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Leonard: What the hell are you doing?
Sheldon: Bleeding from my ears.

Leonard: What are you doing hiding back there?
Sheldon: I’m sneaking into work. Now, if the guard at the university asks what’s under the blanket, you tell him it’s some lobster traps.

Leonard: Lobster traps?
Sheldon: Yes. That’s how Velma and Scooby smuggled Shaggy into the old lighthouse.

Leonard: What are you going to do when you get to the university? People are going to recognize you.
Sheldon: Will they, Leonard? (Puts on cap and long-hair wig)

Leonard: Fine. Just get back under your blanket, and I’ll drive you there.
Sheldon: And no more singing.

Leonard: Fine.
Sheldon: I have GPS on my phone. I know you turned around.

Leonard: Sheldon, there are a million great vacations you could take. What about Hawaii?
Sheldon: Hawaii is a former leper colony on top of an active volcano where the disappointing ending to Lost was filmed. Mahalo for nothing, Hawaii.

Howard: How about Florida? They’ve got Cape Canaveral, they’ve got Disney, they’ve got my Aunt Ida and the world’s largest collection of diabetic candy. Plus, if you get sweaty enough, her plastic-covered furniture is like a flume ride.
Sheldon: My family took a trip to Florida when I was a child. A seagull stole a hot dog from me on the beach. I got the message.

Raj: Really? What was I doing to your neck last night while you were playing X-Box?
Sheldon: It’s like I’m living in a dictatorship. You must take a vacation, you must have fun, you must enjoy life.

Leonard: Sheldon, everybody takes vacations.
Sheldon: One time they tried to make Richard Feynman take a vacation, but he chose instead to expand his mind and learn something new. He went to work in his friend’s biology lab. Richard Feynman was a famous American physicist, part of the Manhattan Project.

Howard: Everyone in the world of science knows who Richard Feynman was.
Sheldon: Now you do, too. Oh! I have a brilliant idea. Amy’s a biologist. I’ll go work in her lab.

Howard: Isn’t that just Feynman’s idea?
Sheldon: Ten seconds ago, you never heard of him. Now you’re an expert.

Scene: Amy’s laboratory.
Sheldon: Boy, oh, boy. This vacation is off to a wonderful start. The smell of formaldehyde, the whir of the centrifuge, the distant chatter of lab animals being dispatched for dissection. Mm, I can already feel my cares just melting away.

Amy: I’m excited to work with my boyfriend. It’s gonna be romantic.
Sheldon: Way to kill the mood.

Amy: Come on, Sheldon. We can be like Marie Curie and her husband, Pierre, who spent their days working side by side, bathed in the glow of their love and the radium that ultimately killed her. Screw Beauty and the Beast, that’s the love story Disney should tell.
Sheldon: Okay, what do we start with? Maybe splicing some genes, clone a sheep, perhaps grow a human ear on a mouse’s back? Ha-ha, I’m a freak!

Amy: Oh, I’m gonna be doing some brain stem histology while you put yourself on the business end of a sponge and wash those beakers.
Sheldon: Wash those bea… Oh, I get it, a little hazing for the new fella. Yeah, I’d better keep and eye out for, what, shoe polish on the microscope, or mad cow disease in my grilled cheese sandwich?

Amy: No, I just need those beakers washed. Hippity-hop, quick like a bunny.
Sheldon: What? Excuse me, you have Dr. Sheldon Cooper in your lab. You’re gonna make him do the dishes? That’s like asking the Incredible Hulk to open a pickle jar.

Amy: Sheldon, you’ve never worked in a lab like this before. You have no experience in the field of biology.
Sheldon: I have plenty of experience in biology. I bought a Tamagotchi in 1998. And it’s still alive. Let’s do this.

Scene: Amy’s laboratory.
Sheldon: Here you go. This is now the only lab with glassware washed by a man with two doctorates and a restraining order signed by Carl Sagan.

Amy: Soap spots. Wash ’em again.
Sheldon: Y-you’re being ridiculous. Those are perfectly clean.

Amy: Sheldon, this beaker used to contain cerebral spinal fluid from an elephant that died of syphilis. If it’s, in fact, perfectly clean, drink from it.
Sheldon: Biologists are mean.

Amy: All right, perhaps this task will be a little bit more up your alley. I need you to count the bacteria spores on these petri dishes.
Sheldon: There was something wrong with that detergent. That was way too bubbly.

Amy: I’m sure it was.
Sheldon: I intend to write that soap company a strongly worded letter.

Amy: Yeah, good for you. Now, start counting.
Sheldon: You know what this place needs? A suggestion box.

Later.
Sheldon: 366… 367…

Amy: How’s it going?
Sheldon: How’s counting going? When I was in kindergarten, I recited pi to a thousand places for the school talent show. I think I got this.

Amy: Great.
Sheldon: Aw, nuts! One…

Later.
Sheldon: This is preposterous. I think you’re giving me these tasks because you’re afraid if you give me anything meaningful to do, I’ll show you up.

Amy: Really? Is that what you think?
Sheldon: Yes, that’s what I think. And I’m super smart, so it’s probably true.

Amy: Hey, I’ve been training in the field of neurobiology for 12 years. You’ve been here for three hours, and you’ve spent one of them in the bathroom.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. It takes me a while to get things going on an unfamiliar toilet.

Amy: Sheldon, I’ve given you the simplest things to do, and you haven’t done one of them right.
Sheldon: Maybe that’s because I’m not being challenged. It’s the same reason Einstein failed math.

Amy: Maybe the math was too bubbly for him.
Sheldon: You think you’re doing science by cutting up that brain? They could do the same thing at any Quiznos. And they’d offer to toast it for me, too.

Amy: Okay, smart guy. I’m about to remove the locus coeruleus, which is incredibly delicate work. Have at it.
Sheldon: All right. I’m no stranger to a little gray matter. Locus coeruleus. Locus coeruleus.

Amy: You’re getting warmer, it is, indeed, in the brain. Hope your hands are steady. It’s the width of a single hair. But this is just biology, so I’m sure it’s no problem for a genius like you.
Sheldon: It’s not. I’ll have you know, in the field of physics, we work with particles so small, they make fat jokes about the locus coeruleus, i.e., when your locus coeruleus sits around the house, it sits around the house.

Amy: Oh, are we nervous, Dr. Cooper?
Sheldon: No. What you see is a man trembling with confidence. Does a locus coeruleus normally bleed that much?

Amy: No. But your thumb does.
Sheldon: Oh, dear. (Faints)

Howard: What are you doing here?
Sheldon: I’m on vacation. Social convention dictates that I let my hair down at a local watering hole. Social convention is stupid.

Howard: What happened to your thumb?
Sheldon: You know, I have ten fingers and ten toes. If I tell you a story about each one of them, we’ll be here all day, let’s just move on.

Barman: What can I get you?
Sheldon: Ah, seeing as I’m on vacation, a pina colada seems appropriate. Extra pineapple slices, extra whipped cream, extra cherries, extra umbrellas, and, uh, hold the rum. Don’t let me have too many of those.

Penny: You and Amy? Good?
Sheldon: Oh, better than good.

Penny: All right, Howard Wolowitz, listen up. You sign anything she puts in front of you, because you are the luckiest man alive. If you let her go, there is no way you can find anyone else. Speaking on behalf of all women, it is not gonna happen, we had a meeting. And you, a grown man fainting at the sight of a little blood.
Sheldon: Excuse me, this is a fairly substantial wound. (Removes plaster. Faints again)

Scene: Amy’s laboratory.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy?

Amy: What do you want?
Sheldon: I was kind of hoping I could continue vacationing in your laboratory. After all, I did book the whole week.

Amy: Do you honestly think you can just waltz back in here after the way you behaved yesterday?
Sheldon: I was not myself. I had lost a lot of thumb blood.

Amy: That’s not an apology.
Sheldon: That is your opinion.

Amy: I want a real apology.
Sheldon: I’m sorry that you weren’t able to…

Amy: No.
Sheldon: That my genius…

Amy: No.
Sheldon: That the soap was…

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Fine. Sorry.

Amy: You’re forgiven. Now, if you want to stay, get started on those beakers. They’re still dirty from yesterday.
Sheldon: Next year I’m going to Epcot.

Howard: I wonder how long Sheldon’s got.
Sheldon: These shrimp are all the same size. There’s no the logical order to eat them in.

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Mm, indeed.

Howard: So sad.
Sheldon: Dibs.

Kripke: What’s up, fewwas?
Sheldon: What are you doing here, Kripke?

Kripke: Ah, measuwing my new office for dwapes.
Sheldon: This is not your office. It hasn’t been assigned yet.

Kripke: Well, I called dibs at the Chwistmas party when Pwofessor Wothman twied to have intercourse with the toys for tots cowwection box.
Sheldon: Dibs? This is a university, not a playground. Offices are not assigned because someone called dibs.

Leonard: You just called dibs.
Sheldon: Shut it. Offices are assigned by seniority. I arrived at the university first.

Scene: A bathroom at the university.
Sheldon: I found him. He’s in the bathroom. President Siebert?

Siebert: Can’t this wait?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. We just need a word.

Siebert: Can’t you take this up with your department chairman?
Sheldon: We tried. His assistant said he was on sabbatical. Although we distinctly heard his office window open and shut.

Siebert: Gentlemen, there’s a task I’m trying to accomplish here, and I’m having trouble doing it.
Sheldon: Oh, my. President Siebert, I don’t mean to be an alarmist, but difficulty initiating a urine stream could be a symptom of benign prostatic hyperplasia. If you’re interested, I can send you a link to a YouTube video that’ll show you how to perform your own rectal exam. Yeah, uh, helpful hint, trim your nails first.

Kripke: Ignore him, Pwesident Siebert. I’m sure a young man such as yourself has a perfectwy healthy pwostate.
Sheldon: Oh, he’s just trying to butter you up. And for the record, butter is an excellent lubricant for your rectal exam.

Kripke: Well, as wong as we’re here, I might as well take a weak.
Sheldon: Kripke?

Kripke: Yes?
Sheldon: You’re in my spot.

Leonard: What’s he doing here?
Sheldon: We’re going to work this office situation out like gentlemen. And if that doesn’t work, I’m going to poison his tea.

Kripke: Cooper.
Sheldon: Kripke. Come in. I’m making tea. Would you like a cup?

Kripke: Am I weawing a summer fwock? No, I don’t want tea. Wet’s get down to bwass tacks.
Sheldon: Fine. In the interest of preserving our friendship…

Kripke: We’re not fwiends.
Sheldon: Well, that’s a little hard to hear, but all right. As you know, the essence of diplomacy is compromise. With that in mind, I propose the following. I will take Rothman’s office, and you will find a way to be okay with that.

Kripke: How about I take Wothman’s office, and you go suck a wemon?
Sheldon: You sure I can’t get you that cup of tea?

Kripke: What the fwig is that?
Sheldon: Rock-Paper-Scissors-Lizard-Spock was created by Internet pioneer Sam Kass as an improvement on the classic game Rock-Paper-Scissors. All hail Sam Kass.

Kripke: How does it work?
Sheldon: Oh, it’s very simple. Scissors cuts paper, paper covers rock, rock crushes lizard, lizard poisons Spock, Spock smashes scissors, scissors decapitates lizard, lizard eats paper, paper disproves Spock, Spock vaporizes rock, and as it always has, rock crushes scissors.

Kripke: I’m sowwy. Can you wepeat that?
Sheldon: Well, of course. Scissors cuts paper, paper covers rock, rock crushes lizard, lizard poisons Spock, Spock smashes scissors, scissors decapitates lizard, lizard eats paper, paper disproves Spock, Spock vaporizes rock, and as it always has, rock crushes scissors.

Kripke: Almost got it. One more time.
Sheldon: Surely. Scissors cuts paper, paper covers rock, rock…

Howard: Sheldon, stop. He’s screwing with you.
Sheldon: Is he? Well, then, it seems we have reached an impasse. I see no other option than to challenge you to a duel. I’d smack you with a glove, but just last week I packed away my winter things.

Leonard: H-h-h-hang on, Howard. Barry, how good of a shot are you?
Sheldon: Not pistols. Minds. A trivia contest, and you may choose the field of battle. Star Trek trivia, Star Trek: Next Generation trivia, Star Trek: Deep Space Nine trivia, Star Trek: Voyager trivia, or model trains.

Leonard: All right, this is one-on-one. First person to five wins the office. Any questions? Yes, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Five what?

Later. Ball hits Sheldon in back of head.
Sheldon: Hey! He did that on purpose,

Leonard: No. No, I’m not.
Sheldon: Use the force, Sheldon. Use the force. (Throws ball. It goes about two feet in front of him.) I’m gonna need more force.

Leonard: All right, we gave it 45 minutes. It’s no longer funny. Let’s try something else.
Sheldon: What do you propose?

Kripke: Oh, you are going down, Cooper.
Sheldon: I don’t think so, Kripke. I’ve bounced many a rubber ball in my day.

Leonard: Congratulations, Sheldon. You win office.
Sheldon: Who’s unsatisfactory in P.E. now?

Scene: Rothman’s office.
Sheldon: Ah, the spoils. I see why victors love them.

Raj: I’m happy for you, Sheldon. But I have to admit I’m going to miss sharing an office with you.
Sheldon: Oh, of course you are. Feel free to drop by any time.

Raj: Thank you.
Sheldon: Yeah. Call first. (Pushes him out. Closes door. Rothman is standing naked behind it.)

Rothman: Oh. Hello.
Sheldon: Professor Rothman. This isn’t your office any more. You’re retired.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m trying to raise the temperature in here before my nipples tear through my shirt.

Howard: Why don’t you just turn up the thermostat?
Sheldon: Aha! Good question. It turns out the thermostat for my new office isn’t in my new office. No. It’s next door, in Professor Davenport’s office, who is currently enjoying the hot flashes associated with menopause.

Leonard: Why is there a hole here?
Sheldon: Why is there a hole in my new office? I’ve narrowed it down to two possibilities: There was something in the wall that someone outside the wall wanted, or the more disturbing, there was something in the wall that wanted out.

Raj: Well, at least you finally got a window that opens. That’s nice.
Sheldon: Is it? Listen.

Raj: What, you don’t like wind chimes?
Sheldon: No, I hate them, but it gets worse. There it is.

Howard: The bird?
Sheldon: Yeah, It’s completely out of tune with the wind chimes.

Raj: So?
Sheldon: You don’t get it, do you? That’s a mockingbird. Mockingbirds can change their song, which means he’s out of tune on purpose. He’s mocking me. Oh dear. There it is again. Do you feel it?

Howard: The growing realization that you are one wacky bastard? Yep.
Sheldon: No. The vibration. We are directly underneath the geology lab, and they’re running their confounded sieve shakers again. Hey, gravel monkeys, if you need to shake rocks, try jiggling your heads around!

Leonard: Sheldon, relax.
Sheldon: How can I relax? My nervous system is being stretched out like the strings of a harp and plucked by holes and birds and wind and the low-hanging scrotum of the difficult-to-evict Professor Rothman.

Leonard: If you’re not happy, why don’t you just let Kripke have the office?
Sheldon: What, and let him win? Do I look crazy to you? We’re trying to think down here, you geode-loving feldspar jockeys! (To the bird) And you, the notes are C, D, E, G and A. You pick one or I am chopping down that tree!

Scene: Rothman’s office. Sheldon has his head stuck in the hole in the wall.
Sheldon: Help! Somebody help!

Leonard: What happened?
Sheldon: I was trying to see what was in here and my head got stuck.

Leonard: Why would you do that?
Sheldon: It’s called scientific curiosity. Now go get butter.

Leonard: I’m just gonna run to the store and get a few things. I’ll pick you up when you’re done.
Sheldon: Okay. I like it a little better when you stay, but all right.

Barber: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello. I’m here for my haircut with Mr. D’Onofrio.

Barber: I’m sorry, Uncle Tony’s in the hospital. He’s pretty sick.
Sheldon: Oh, dear, Mr. D’Onofrio’s in the hospital. Why do these things always happen to me?

Barber: I can cut it for you.
Sheldon: You’re not Mr. D’Onofrio. I get my hair cut by Mr. D’Onofrio. You believe this guy?

Leonard: Excuse us for a second. Sheldon, it’s okay, he can do it. He’s a barber.
Sheldon: He’s not a barber, he’s the nephew. He’s an example of the kind of nepotism that runs rampant in the barbering industry. Besides, Mr. D’Onofrio knows exactly how I like my hair done because he has all my haircut records from my barber in Texas.

Leonard: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: When I first moved here I was nervous about finding a new barber, so my mother had all my haircut records sent here to Mr. D’Onofrio.

Leonard: There’s no such thing as haircut records.
Sheldon: Yes, there are.

Leonard: Have you ever seen them?
Sheldon: No, but my mother assured me they were sent here, and I’ll bet you dollars to doughnuts that this one doesn’t have them. Uh, excuse me. Do you have access to my haircut records?

Barber: Your what?
Sheldon: To paraphrase T.S. Eliot, this is the way the world ends, not with a bang but with a nephew.

Leonard: Sheldon, you’re a grown man, he’s a professional, and your haircut is number three on that poster from 1946. Just sit down and let him do it.
Sheldon: Fine, but if I come out of this looking like a dork, it’s on you. (Sits)

Barber: So my kid said the funniest thing today.
Sheldon: Nope. (Runs out)

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Can you pass the Parmesan cheese?

Leonard: Sure. What are you doing?
Sheldon: I’m trying to get the hair out of my eyes.

Leonard: Sheldon, you are one day late for your haircut.
Sheldon: Thank you for captioning my nightmare.

Leonard: So, what kind of things are they… (to Sheldon) will you stop that?
Sheldon: I can’t help it, I feel like a teen heartthrob.

Penny: You know, Sheldon, I used to cut my brother’s hair. I could do it for you.
Sheldon: Penny, I know you mean well, offering the skills of the hill folk, but, um, here in town we don’t churn our own butter, we don’t, uh, make dresses out of gunny sacks, and, uh, we sure as shootin’ don’t get our hair cut by bottle-blonde…

Leonard: Sheldon, be nice.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, it’s the bad boy attitude that comes with this hair.

Amy: I’m a cowboy, on a steel horse I ride. I’m wanted… I’m wanted… wanted, dead or alive. Sheldon, you’re ruining girlfriend-boyfriend sing-along night.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I’m looking for a barber and I’m running out of time. My hair is growing at the rate of 4.6 yoctometers per femtosecond. I mean, if you’re quiet, you can hear it.

Amy: What about Supercuts?
Sheldon: I tried once. They do men’s and women’s hair in the same room at the same time. It’s like Sodom and Gomorrah with mousse.

Amy: Well, this isn’t a crisis. Why don’t you just let your hair grow out a little?
Sheldon: Why don’t I let my hair grow out? Um, why don’t I start wearing Birkenstocks and, uh, uh, seeking validation of my opinions by asking can you dig it?

Scene: A hospital ward.
Sheldon: Mr. D’Onofrio? It’s Sheldon. They didn’t have anything barber-themed in the gift shop, so I got you this. I don’t know if you can read his little T-shirt. It says, um, get well bear-y soon. Trust me, if you were even a little conscious right now, you’d be laughing. Anyway, there’s new studies that show, people in comas are aware of everything going on around them. With that in mind, if you can hear me, move away from the light and toward the sound of these scissors.

Nurse: Can I help you?
Sheldon: Yes. Do you have something I could use as a cape?

Nurse: Oh, dear, did we spit out our pills, slip out of the ninth floor, and go on a little adventure?
Sheldon: Oh, no, no, I’m just here to get my hair cut.

Nurse: I-I see. J-Jus-Just wait here one moment. Security!
Sheldon: I got to run. But not with scissors, that would be unsafe.

Leonard: Did you have fun? Because if you had fun, then you are, you are a winner. Now that’s, that-that’s what chess is all about.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: Oh, hey. Sorry, Sheldon, I’ll move.
Sheldon: Eh, why? My spot, your spot, what difference does it make?

Penny: Uh, sweetie, are you all right?
Sheldon: No, I’m not all right. It’s been six days since I was supposed to get a haircut and nothing horrible has happened.

Penny: Okay, I’m sorry, I don’t understand.
Sheldon: Leonard, explain it to her.

Leonard: Oh, uh, he’s crazy.
Sheldon: I have spent my whole life trying to bring order to the universe by carefully planning every moment of every day. But all my efforts, our dinner schedule, my pyjama rotation, my bowel movement spreadsheet, it’s clear now, I’ve been wasting my time.

Penny: You know, Sh-Sheldon, sometimes it’s nice not knowing what’s coming. I mean, look at me and Leonard. We went out, we broke up, now we’re trying again. We don’t know what’s gonna happen.
Sheldon: Oh, please, everyone knows what’s going to happen. But I see your point.

Leonard: I think this could be good for you. Maybe it’s time for you to shake things up a bit.
Sheldon: You’re right. I should embrace the chaos.

Leonard: Great. What are you going to do first?
Sheldon: I don’t know. I could do anything. All bets are off. The world is my oyster. I got it. I’m going to put on my Tuesday pyjamas tonight.

Leonard (going to living room): Don’t let this be Sheldon playing bongos. Please don’t let this be Sheldon playing bongos.
Sheldon: Hello, Leonard, do you like my bongos? Bet you didn’t know that I had bongos.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s three o’clock in the morning.
Sheldon: Three in the morning is a good time for bongos.

Leonard: I was sleeping.
Sheldon: Leonard sleeps while I play bongos.

Leonard: No, he doesn’t.
Sheldon: Leonard no sleep while I play bongos. Bongo solo.

Penny: Why did you get bongos?
Sheldon: Richard Feynman played the bongos. I thought I’d give that a try.

Penny: Oh, Leonard, it’s three o’clock in the morning. I don’t care if Richard Feynman was a purple leprechaun who lived in my butt.
Sheldon: Penny meant if he were a purple leprechaun. Penny forgot to use the subjunctive.

Leonard: Sheldon, go to bed. You have work in the morning.
Sheldon: Maybe, maybe not. Maybe tomorrow I start a bongo band and tour the world.

Leonard: W-w-wuh, no, no, hang on,uh, uh, roommate agreement. No hootenannies, sing-a-longs, or barbershop quartets after ten p.m.
Sheldon: Roommate agreement? Are you kidding? We are living in a world of chaos. Roommate agreement.

Penny: Where are you going?
Sheldon: Wherever the music takes me, kitten. I play bongos walking down the stairs. (Sound of falling) Oh! Oh! Never play bongos walking down the stairs.

Leonard: No, it was called for.
Sheldon: What’s going on?

Penny: All right, Sheldon, this craziness has gone on long enough. Please come home so I can cut your hair.
Sheldon: Penny, you’re not trained. You’re not licensed. Most importantly, you don’t have access to my haircut records.

Penny: It was a long story. Anyway, Sheldon, I promise I know what I’m doing. Please let me cut your hair.
Sheldon: Amy, what do you think?

Amy: There’s not a hair on my body I wouldn’t let this woman trim.
Sheldon: Fine, let’s go. Thank you for letting me sleep on your couch.

Leonard: What’s this about Sheldon seeing you naked?
Sheldon: Oh, relax. It was just her bottom and her breasts.

Penny: Almost done.
Sheldon: At the end of the haircut, Mr. D’Onofrio would tell me a dirty joke.

Penny: Well, sorry, I don’t know any dirty jokes.
Sheldon: That’s okay, I never understood them anyway.

Penny: Okay, what do you think?
Sheldon: Hmm, well, it’s a little Hollywood. But I think I can pull it off. Well done, Penny.

Penny: Ha, told you. Okay, I’m just gonna clean up your neck a little and then you are good to go.
Sheldon: Fun time. Hah. Sorry, sometimes the clippers tickle me.

Raj: Woo-hoo!
Sheldon: Movies or video games? Or board game? Or trading card games? Or Lego’s? Or dress up? Or comic books? Or dramatic readings of novelizations? Yes to all!

Leonard: We are going to play the online game.
Sheldon: The online game? Bully!

Amy: Gentlemen, as much as I’m sure Sheldon would enjoy playing intergalactic make-believe, he and I have other plans. We are attending my Aunt Flora’s 93rd birthday party.
Sheldon: Just tell her I can’t come.

Amy: She’ll be disappointed if we don’t show up.
Sheldon: She’s 93. She won’t be disappointed for very long.

Amy: No, hang on. I followed all the protocols set forth by you in the relationship agreement. I made a written record request 72 hours in advance. I checked the tyre pressure on the car. I even contacted the Centres For Disease Control to find out what shots they recommend for travel to Orange County. FYI, it’s none.
Sheldon: Amy, the relationship agreement was not designed for either one of us to get our way.

Amy: You use it to get your way.
Sheldon: I use it to get the right way. The fact that the right way is also my way is a happy coincidence.

Leonard: We’ll miss you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, who wants to spend the whole weekend, running around a bunch of pretend planets battling made up monsters. That’s for babies.

Howard: Yeah, but it’s got lightsabres.
Sheldon: Yeah, please, Amy! It’s got lightsabres!

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: Hello Stuart.

Stuart: Hey Sheldon. Help you with anything?
Sheldon: Yes. I’m attending a party this weekend, for a 93-year-old woman. Can you recommend a gift?

Stuart: Uh, I don’t know. Could put a tennis ball on the end of Excalibur. Make a pretty badass cane.
Sheldon: Do you supply the the tennis ball?

Stuart: No.
Sheldon: Then no. What else?

Stuart: Hmm. Oh, have this collectors edition Batman utility belt. Maybe she can use it as a wearable pill caddy.
Sheldon: Well, she’d just look silly wearing that without the rest of the costume.

Stuart: I’m sorry Sheldon, that’s it. That’s all I got.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s not your fault. I’ve been to the model train store. I’ve been to Radio Shack. This woman is impossible to shop for.

Leonard: I’d make fun of Sheldon for having girl problems if I wasn’t in shock that Sheldon has girl problems.
Sheldon: No, Leonard, go ahead and mock. Like my daddy always said, Shelly, women aren’t anything but flippin’ pains in the bottom.

Leonard: That’s what your father used to say?
Sheldon: Well, I took out the bad words and the yeehaw, but you get the gist.

Raj: I can never find the tiller. I got a book; it didn’t help.
Sheldon: Yeah, I always thought if I were ever enslaved, it would be by an advanced species from another planet, not some hotsy-totsy from Glendale.

Howard: Now, I downloaded an app that might be helpful in this situation. (Phone makes whip sound)
Sheldon: You’re right. I’m smart as a whip. I should be able to figure this out.

Leonard: Uh-uh.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny! (Knock, knock, knock) Penny! (Knock, knock, knock) Penny!

Penny: Sorry, Stallion. Your weird friend Giraffe is here.
Sheldon: Hello, Penny. I just stopped by to bring you this gift.

Penny: Gummy bears? Thank you.
Sheldon: Now that you’re in my debt, please manipulate Amy into releasing me from my commitment to attend her aunt’s tedious birthday party.

Penny: Not a chance.
Sheldon: All right. I thought the candy might not be enough so let me up the ante. These are Cooper Coupons. These are for various things I can do for you. Um, oh, this one is for one free grammar check. Uh, you could use it for emails, letters, tattoos, what have you. Um, oh, this is fun one. This is an afternoon with me at the California Science Center, where I point out their mistakes.

Penny: All right, sweetie, I’m not going to get involved in your relationship.
Sheldon: Oh, come on. It’s just a simple favour. Now, when’s the last time I asked you to do something for me?

Penny: Yesterday. You made me look in your ear to see if there was a ladybug in it.
Sheldon: When is the last time I asked you to do something that wasn’t a medical emergency?

Penny: Yesterday. You made me look in your ear to see if there was a ladybug in it.
Sheldon: All right, then, I have no choice but to go on to plan B.

Penny: What’s that?
Sheldon: I’m going to run around outside with a wet head and try to catch a cold.

Amy: Good morning.
Sheldon: Hello.

Amy: I think you’re really going to enjoy yourself today. Not only do you get to meet my relatives, but since my aunt’s nursing home is catering the party, all of the food is incredibly soft. It’s like a vacation for your teeth.
Sheldon: All right.

Amy: You sure you’re okay with this?
Sheldon: Yes. I decided to find a way that I could have this experience and enjoy it.

Amy: Thank you. That means a lot to me.
Sheldon: Oh, don’t thank me. Thank wireless technology. I realized, I can go to your aunt’s awful party and still spend the whole day gaming with my friends.

Amy: Sheldon, my relatives are going to want to talk to you, and you’re going to be sitting there playing a game? Isn’t that a little rude?
Sheldon: Oh, I got that covered. Headset. I won’t hear a word the old geezers are saying.

Amy: You know, if playing that game is more important to you than honouring your commitment to me, and you don’t mind me showing up at a party all by myself after I’ve already told everybody I’ll be bringing somebody, then, fine. Go home and play your game.
Sheldon: Thanks. Ooh, listen, I wouldn’t mind a piece of birthday cake, provided the old gal’s candle blow is clean and dry.

Raj: Hey, I plan on levelling up in the game, not my swimsuit size, thank you very much.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, the game offers us a choice between playing for the Republic and the light side, or the Sith Empire and the dark side.

Leonard: Well, we’re always the good guys. In D&D, we’re lawful good, in City Of Heroes, we’re the heroes, in Grand Theft Auto, we pay the prostitutes promptly and never hit them with a bat.
Sheldon: Those women are prostitutes? You said they were raising money for stem cell research.

Howard: I had no choice. Last night, she said, why don’t we go out for brunch tomorrow and then maybe the Arboretum. And I said, well, no, I promised the guys I was going to play a video game with them all weekend. And she said, that sounds like fun, can I come, too? And then I didn’t answer for a second, and then she said, well, do you not want me to come? And then I bought her a new laptop and the game, and she’s parking the car right now.
Sheldon: Is the whip sound app contextually appropriate here?

Leonard: Uh, it is, but I think you might’ve waited too long for it to be funny. (Whip sound) I was wrong, it’s still funny.
Sheldon: Oh, good. Hah-hah!

Bernadette: Get that guy! Get that guy! Pew! Pew! Pew! Pew!
Sheldon: Dr. Rostenkowski, it may interest you to know that saying pew, pew, pew isn’t as effective as pressing your blaster key. In the same way that saying whee doesn’t make the land speeder go.

Howard: Fine, I’ll change. (Whip sound) 
Sheldon: Hah-hah!

Bernadette: I can’t help it. My Howie Wowie has an owie.
Sheldon: That is the most sickeningly sweet thing I have ever experienced. And I am sipping Kool-Aid through a Red Vine.

Amy: And if you don’t start treating me better, I’m leaving you for a miniature horse breeder named Armin.
Sheldon: Armin who?

Penny: Oh.
Sheldon: I think I understand. You’re the one person who can say Sheldon Cooper is your boyfriend, but that rings hollow if you can’t lord him over others in the flesh. I forget what I bring to the party and what I take away when I leave. Please accept these valuable Cooper Coupons as restitution.

Amy: Ooh, Science Center. Redeeming. Let’s go.
Sheldon: Well played, Amy Farrah Fowler. Let me get my coat. (Whip sound) Oh, grow up, Leonard.

Penny: Oh my God, I love this chicken.
Sheldon: Oh, you know what they say, the best things in life are free.

Penny: Okay, you’re right, I eat your food a lot. How about this, you can raid my fridge any time you want.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s very kind of you. Next time I have a hankering to wash down a D cell battery with a jar of old pickle juice, I’ll come a-knocking.

Howard: Well, can you make it soon. There’s a battle royale going on over the seating charts. In one corner, Bernadette’s mom, and the other three, mine.
Sheldon: Yeah, I hate wedding receptions. I wish the bride and groom would take a cue from Bilbo Baggins, slip on the ring, disappear and everyone goes home.

Leonard: Mmm, you liked Professor Guyster’s wedding.
Sheldon: They had a make your own sundae bar. Ooh, that was a night to remember. Do you know, on the one trip, I just had a bowl of nuts.

Raj: I’m not telling. I’m from Asia. I’m mysterious. Deal with it.
Sheldon: Howard, are you having a make your own sundae bar?

Howard: No, uh, I don’t think so.
Sheldon: Well you should. 50% of marriages end in divorce, but 100% of make your own sundae bars end in happiness.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Quantum physics makes me so happy.

Leonard: Yeah, I’m glad.
Sheldon: It’s like looking at the universe naked. (Shivers) 

Penny: Well, I was thinking about Sheldon’s little joke the other night about me eating all your food.
Sheldon: Oh, that was no joke. But I understand your confusion as I am our group’s resident cut-up.

Leonard: I’m sorry, you are our resident cut-up?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Prove it.
Sheldon: Knock, knock.

Leonard: Who’s there?
Sheldon: Interrupting physicist.

Leonard: Interrupting physi…
Sheldon: MUON!

Penny: Anyway, I got a little residual cheque from my commercial and I thought, hey, how about I get the guys a little thankyou to pay them back. So, Sheldon, ta-da!
Sheldon: Ah! A vintage, mint in box, 1975 Mego Star Trek transporter with real transporter action. Hot-darn!

Penny: Yeah, it was fun, I walked in and two different guys got asthma attacks. Felt pretty good.
Sheldon: Well this calls for an expression of gratitude.

Penny: Ooh, am I about to get a rare Sheldon Cooper hug?
Sheldon: Not this time. Then they wouldn’t be special. Thanks Penny.

Leonard: Awesome!
Sheldon: Look, it was actually designed for my vintage Mr Spock action figure.

Leonard: Ah!
Sheldon: Oh dear Lord. No!

Penny: Why, they’re just toys?
Sheldon: They’re mint in box.

Voice of Spock: Dr Cooper. Dr Cooper?
Sheldon: Is someone there?

Spock: Down here, on your desk.
Sheldon: Spock?

Spock: I need to speak with you.
Sheldon: Fascinating. The only logical explanation is that this is a dream.

Spock: It is not the only logical explanation. For example, you could be hallucinating after being hit on the head by, say, a coconut.
Sheldon: Was I hit on the head by a coconut.

Spock: I’m not going to dignify that with a response. Now, to the matter at hand. You need to play with the transporter toy.
Sheldon: But it’s mint in box.

Spock: Yes, and to open it would destroy it’s value. But remember, like me, you also have a human half.
Sheldon: Well, I’m not going to dignify that with a response.

Spock: Consider this. What is the purpose of a toy?
Sheldon: To be played with.

Spock: Therefore? To not play with it would be?
Sheldon: Illogical. Oh, damn it Spock, you’re right. I’ll do it.

Spock: Sheldon, wait. You have to wake up first.
Sheldon: Oh, of course. Set phasers to dumb, right? (Wakes up in bed) Goody, goody, goody. This is wrong. This is wrong. I’m so excited, but this is wrong. I’m gonna do it. I’m doing it. I did it. Oh, that’s what I always thought 1975 smelled like. One to beam down Mr Scott. Aye, aye, Mr Spock. Energise. (Spins toy). Energise. (Tries to spin toy. It sticks. Tries to get Spock out and toy falls apart.) Don’t be broken. Please don’t be broken. (To Spock toy) What did you make me do? Okay, okay, think. (Sees Leonard’s toy) It’s only logical.

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. Sheldon writhes in bed, then wakes up on an alien planet. 
Sheldon: Oh dear. Two suns and no sunscreen.

Spock: Hello again, Sheldon.
Sheldon: What is it now, tiny Spock?

Spock: I am very disappointed in you. You broke your toy and switched it with Leonard’s. You should be ashamed of yourself.
Sheldon: You’re the one who told me to play with it.

Spock: If I told you to jump off the bridge of the Enterprise, would you do it?
Sheldon: No. If I got on the bridge of the Enterprise, I would never, ever leave.

Spock: Trust me, it gets old after a while. You must right your wrong, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Why? I got away with it. Leonard has his toy, and he’s never going to open it, so he won’t know it’s broken. And I have a toy that isn’t broken. Everybody’s happy.

Spock: Well I am unhappy.
Sheldon: I thought where you come from they don’t have emotions.

Spock: I come from a factory in Taiwan. Now do the right thing.
Sheldon: You know what you are? Well, you’re a green blooded buzzkill. Perhaps it’s time you beam on out of here.

Spock: Fine. I will just use the transporter. Oh, right. You broke it.
Sheldon: Very well. Cooper to Enterprise, one to beam up. Energise. (Throws Spock away. Get’s attacked by a Gorn. Wakes up.) Ah. Tiny Spock. Help.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is working on his laptop. Spock is looking at him judgementally. He switches the two toys.
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t want a broken toy. (Switches them back again. Penny and Leonard enter.) Nothing!

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Nothing. I said nothing.

Penny: I dunno. I just think it’s a waste. (Picks up box. Sheldon screams.) Relax. I’m just looking at the box.
Sheldon: Perhaps you should look with your eyes, and not your muscular Nebraska man-hands.

Penny: What is your problem?
Sheldon: My problem is that I don’t want you to break Leonard’s toy, which you probably did by shaking it. She shook it. We all saw her.

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Mmmmm!

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Oh, nice job, man-hands.

Penny: I didn’t break it. I, I guess Stuart sold it to me like this.
Sheldon: Yes. Yes, he did, that is a perfectly satisfying and plausible explanation. Yeah, let’s all be mad at Stuart.

Leonard: Absolutely.
Sheldon: Wait. It was me. I opened your toy, discovered it was broken and didn’t tell you.

Leonard: Why would you open mine?
Sheldon: I didn’t. That was a lie. I opened my own toy. And it was already broken so I switched them.

Leonard: Well, you should talk to Stuart.
Sheldon: I can’t because that was a lie. Yours was broken in an earthquake. And that’s a lie.

Penny: What is the truth?
Sheldon: My Mr Spock doll came to me in a dream and forced me to open it. And when the toy broke I switched it for yours. Later he encouraged me to do the right thing and I defied him. And then I was attacked by a Gorn.

Penny: Mmm.
Sheldon: Leonard, Penny, I just, I want you both to know that I regret my actions toward the two of you. That’s a lie.

Leonard: So, is that one mine.
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Well, hand it over so I can open it.
Sheldon: Okay. Leonard, even though I don’t have one any more, I hope you have fun playing with it.

Leonard: And that’s a lie, right?
Sheldon: Big fat whopper. I hope it breaks.

Leonard: Boy, a restraining order from Stephen Hawking. It’ll look so nice next to the ones he’s already got from Leonard Nimoy, Carl Sagan and Stan Lee.
Sheldon: Leonard, do you recall when I said that I was going to revolutionize humanity’s understanding of the Higgs boson particle, and you said, Sheldon, it’s two a.m., get out of my bedroom?

Leonard: Like it was ten hours ago. What about it?
Sheldon: Well, I believe I’ve done it. And I’m only saying believe to sound modest, because, sweet Sam Houston, I did it.

Raj: That’s incredible. Oh, here, break out the math.
Sheldon: Oh, okay, let me see this. All right, so this particle here is the boson moving forward in time. Now, I was thinking… Howard, you go ahead and eat. This isn’t going to make any sense to you.

Howard: Sheldon, I have a working understanding of physics.
Sheldon: Yeah, good for you, and don’t stop working on it.

Scene: A corridor.
Sheldon: Please, please, please let me meet Hawking.

Howard: I told you, no.
Sheldon: But I said I’m sorry.

Howard: No, you said, would it help if I said I’m sorry?
Sheldon: And you never answered me. So who owes whom an apology now?

Howard: Sheldon, you’re a condescending jerk. Why on earth would I want to do something nice for you?
Sheldon: Um, to go to Jewish heaven?

Howard: Jews don’t have heaven.
Sheldon: Then to avoid Jewish hell?

Howard: Have you met my mother? I live in Jewish hell.
Sheldon: Howard, please. This is Stephen Hawking. Perhaps my only intellectual equal.

Howard: Oh, you can’t be serious.
Sheldon: Try to put yourself in my place. Imagine you’re the sole human being living on a planet populated with nothing but dogs. And then it turns out there’s another human being.

Howard: Hang on. Are you saying the rest of us are dogs?
Sheldon: Yeah, okay, I can see you’re going to take this the wrong way. Let me try again. Imagine you’re the sole human being living on a planet populated with nothing but chimps.

Howard: Get out of my lab.
Sheldon: Oh, now they’re so much smarter than dogs. Have you seen them on those little bicycles?

Howard: Get out.
Sheldon: How about dolphins?

Howard: It was great. We talked about movies.
Sheldon: Oh!

Howard: I showed him some card tricks.
Sheldon: Oh!

Howard: He even let me read a couple pages from his new book.
Sheldon: Oh!

Howard: Something got you down there, bunky?
Sheldon: Howard, please, I’m begging you.

Raj: Three times. He begged the Fox network not to cancel Firefly. He begged the TNT network to cancel Babylon 5. And when he got food poisoning at the Rose Bowl Parade, he begged a deity he doesn’t believe in to end his life quickly.
Sheldon: Do you understand how important Hawking is to me? When I was six years old, I dressed up as him for Halloween.

Howard: You’re kidding.
Sheldon: No, sir, no, I took my dad’s desk chair, attached a Speak & Spell to it and made my sister push me up and down the block to trick or treat. Granted most people thought I was R2-D2, but still, I got a lot of candy.

Howard: You don’t seem to be understanding the English word no. Maybe a different language will help. Russian, nyet. Chinese, bu. Japanese, iie. Klingon, qo. Binary coded Ascii, 0110111001101111.
Sheldon: It’s actually 01100111.

Howard: No!
Sheldon: I’m not asking for me, I’m asking for Hawking.

Howard: Let me try gansta, hells no.
Sheldon: Okay, look, how about this? Just give him my paper on the Higgs boson. If he sees the incredible breakthrough I’ve made, he’ll reach out to me.

Leonard: What if he doesn’t?
Sheldon: He will, he’s really smart.

Howard: That’s an interesting idea. Why don’t you give me a minute to talk it over with my friends?
Sheldon: How do I do that?

Howard: You walk away.
Sheldon: Walking away.

Raj: Well, don’t be too mean.
Sheldon: Hey, fellas, I’m thinking about making some freshly brewed iced tea if anyone would like some.

Raj: I wouldn’t mind a glass.
Sheldon: I wasn’t talking to you.

Howard: Sheldon, come on back.
Sheldon: Yes, yes. What did you decide?

Howard: I’ll give your paper to Professor Hawking.
Sheldon: Great, thank you. Oh, that’s terrific.

Howard: But in exchange, I’d like you to do a few things for me.
Sheldon: What kinds of things?

Howard: Are you familiar with the 12 labours of Hercules?
Sheldon: Of course.

Scene: Howard’s bedroom.
Sheldon: All right. What would you like me to do first?

Howard: Well, I thought I’d start you off by polishing my belt buckles.
Sheldon: Oh. By all means. When I was a boy, I would polish my Mee-Maw’s silver. And she would entertain me with stories about growing up in Oklahoma. Interesting woman. You know, she once killed a prairie dog with a gravy boat.

Howard: That’s nice.
Sheldon: That’s a lot of belt buckles.

Howard: Funny thing is, I only have one belt. Anyway, I’ll let you get started. Oh, by the way, the little marks, uh, that look like water spots, I tend to stand too close to the urinal, so what you’re seeing there is splash back.
Sheldon: You make sissy on your belt buckles? Mee-Maw’s forks never had that.

Howard: Sheldon, these look great. They’re like magnificent little crowns to hang over my magnificent little jewels. How’d you get them so shiny?
Sheldon: Oh, I-I buffed them with Turtle Wax. The man down at Pep Boys says from now on, the urine should just bead up and roll right off.

Howard: Way to go the extra mile. Your Mee-Maw would be proud.
Sheldon: My Mee-Maw must never know of this. Now will you give Professor Hawking my paper?

Howard: Oh, my dear boy, no. Okay. Next, this is a sexy French maid costume I bought for Bernadette. I thought it might spice things up and get her to dust my room at the same time, but I was wrong and really wrong.
Sheldon: And you want me to return it for you?

Scene: The cafeteria. Sheldon enters in the French maid costume.
Sheldon: What are you all staring at? Didn’t you ever see a man try to get a meeting with Stephen Hawking before?

Penny: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: It’s not Saturday night. Why are you doing your laundry?
Sheldon: This is not my laundry.

Penny: Wow, are these Amy’s? Kind of trashy, good for her.
Sheldon: Those are Howard’s.

Penny: Ugh. Why are you washing Howard’s man panties?
Sheldon: Because if I don’t, he won’t give my paper to Stephen Hawking. He’s a famous physicist.

Penny: Yeah, yeah, I know, he’s the wheelchair dude who invented time.
Sheldon: That’s close enough.

Penny: I don’t understand, why doesn’t Howard just introduce you to the guy?
Sheldon: Because he’s punishing me for being a, quote, condescending jerk. You don’t think I’m condescending, do you?

Penny: Well…
Sheldon: Oh, I’m sorry, condescending means…

Penny: I know what it means. And yes, you love correcting people and putting them down.
Sheldon: Au contraire. When I correct people I am raising them up. You should know, I do it for you more than anyone.

Penny: Come on, you do it to feel superior. I see that twinkle in your eye when someone says who instead of whom or thinks the moon is a planet.
Sheldon: Or Don Quixote is a book about a donkey named Hotay.

Penny: See, there it is, there’s that twinkle.
Sheldon: Well, I can’t help it. That’s an involuntary twinkle.

Penny: What do you want me to tell you, Sheldon?
Sheldon: I want you to tell me that Howard is being mean to me for no reason.

Penny: Fine, Howard is being mean to you for no reason.
Sheldon: I knew it.

Mrs Wolowitz (off): Sheldon! I need your help!
Sheldon: What is it now, Mrs. Wolowitz?

Mrs Wolowitz (off): It’s this dress. When I put my front in, my back pops out. When I put my back in, my front pops out. It’s like trying to keep two dogs in a bathtub!
Sheldon: What do you want me to do?

Mrs Wolowitz (off): You’re right, who am I kidding? You should have seen me when I was young, Sheldon. The fellas used to line up and bring me boxes of candy. Why did I eat it all? Would you hold me?
Sheldon: Oh, no, you know, I’m not really the holding kind of… Oh!

Howard: Yeah, I made an adjustment on the motor drive and when I was putting it back together I could not for the life of me figure out where they went.
Sheldon: I did it. Had to go to three clothing stores, but we finally found a dress that could envelop your mother.

Howard: I should have sent you to the custom car cover place in Altadena. They have her pattern on file.
Sheldon: Humorous. Now will you please present my paper to Professor Hawking?

Howard: I don’t know.
Sheldon: Oh, for heaven’s sake. I did your laundry, I pee-pee-proofed your belt buckles, I, I even sprained my wrist helping your mother lift her bosom.

Howard: All right, Sheldon, there’s only one thing left I want you to do. Don’t worry, it’s an easy one.
Sheldon: Okay.

Howard: Give me a compliment.
Sheldon: Fine. You have very tiny hands.

Howard: No, about my job. I want you to tell me I’m good at what I do.
Sheldon: You’re obviously good at what you do.

Howard: Well, then why are you always ripping on me?
Sheldon: Oh, I understand the confusion. I have never said that you are not good at what you do. It’s just that what you do is not worth doing.

Howard: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Now will you give my paper to Hawking?

Howard: Sorry, I can’t.
Sheldon: What, why not?

Howard: I gave it to him three days ago. He was really impressed. He wants to meet you.
Sheldon: All right, then. Thank you, Howard. Please let Professor Hawking know that I’m available at his earliest convenience.

Scene: Stephen Hawking’s office.
Sheldon: Professor Hawking, it’s an honour and a privilege to meet you, sir.

Hawking: I know.
Sheldon: I want to thank you for taking time to see me.

Hawking: My pleasure. I enjoyed reading your paper very much. You clearly have a brilliant mind.
Sheldon: I know.

Hawking: Your thesis that the Higgs boson is a black hole accelerating backwards through time is fascinating.
Sheldon: Thank you. It just, it came to me one morning in the shower.

Hawking: That’s nice. Too bad it’s wrong.
Sheldon: What do you mean wrong?

Hawking: You made an arithmetic mistake on page two. It was quite the boner.
Sheldon: No, no, th-th-th-that can’t be right. I-I don’t make arithmetic mistakes.

Hawking: Are you saying I do?
Sheldon: Oh, no, no, no, of course not. It’s just, I was thinking… Oh, gosh, golly, I made a boo-boo, and I gave it to Stephen Hawking.

Scene: The cafeteria. Sheldon laughs to himself.
Sheldon: I wish you could all be inside my head. The conversation is sparkling. (Pause) Fine, I’ll tell you. A lichen is an organism made up of two separate species, fungi and algae. If you could merge with another species, what species would you pick and why? Hint, there is a right answer. None of you will get it.

Raj: Okay, uh, I’d pick swan because, uh, the resulting hybrid would have the advanced industrial civilization of a human and the long graceful neck I’ve always dreamed of having.
Sheldon: Wrong. Leonard?

Leonard: Horse, but mostly just for the height. A little bit for the genital girth.
Sheldon: Wrong, and let’s keep it clean, shall we?

Leonard: Also instead of just living in your mother’s house, you could actually live inside her body.
Sheldon: Clever, but also wrong. No, the best organism for human beings to merge with is the lichen itself. That way, you’d be human, fungus, and algae. Triple threat. Like three-bean salad.

Leonard: Give me one circumstance in which that would be useful.
Sheldon: All right, picture this, a beautiful outdoor concert. Now, as a human, I appreciate Beethoven. As a fungus, I have a terrific view, growing out of a towering maple tree. And no thank you, expensive concessions. Because as an algae, I’ll just snack on this sunlight.

Raj: Anyway, if it’s okay with you, we should talk about Howard’s bachelor party.
Sheldon: Well, seems like a bit of a let down after our lichen conversation, but, what do you know, you’re half swan.

Leonard: Good for you, Howard. I’m proud of you. And still, you’re the first one of us to get married. We have to do something special.
Sheldon: You know Germans have an interesting pre-wedding custom.

Raj: Maybe we can go up to Napa Valley. They’ve got that wine train.
Sheldon: Boo, wine! But yay, trains. I’m in.

Leonard: Hey, I got to hand it to Raj, he found a really nice spot to have a bachelor party.
Sheldon: It’s not bad. Unless you compare it to a train; then it stinks.

Leonard: Are you drinking whisky?
Sheldon: Indeed. If I’m to participate in the social convention that is the stag night, then I must embrace all its components, including tobacco, swear words, and yes, alcohol. Jeepers! That’s yucky.

Wil: Well, it was either this or another hot tub party at George Takei’s house.
Sheldon: I’m confused. I thought since our reconciliation, I was your friend in this group.

Wil: Oh, I’m friends with Howard too.
Sheldon: Oh. I guess you’re just friends with anybody. (Drinks) Aagh!

All: Hear! Hear!
Sheldon: And, apparently, Wil Wheaton’s best friend.

Wil: Sheldon…
Sheldon: Talk to the hand.

Raj: Does anyone have any words they’d like to say about our man of the evening?
Sheldon: Yeah, I do. (All groan). As is the tradition, I have prepared a series of disrespectful jokes which generate humour at Howard’s expense. Prepare to have your ribs tickled. Howard, I always thought you’d be the last one of us to ever get married, because you are so short and unappealing. Am I right? Let’s see here. Oh, seriously though, Howard, you’re actually one of the most intelligent people I know. And that’s a zinger, because you’re not. I’ve always thought that you’d make someone a fine husband someday. Assuming you’d be able to get the parts, and develop the engineering skills to assemble them, which I don’t see as likely. Hacha! Okay, let me see here. Okay, kidding aside, Howard, you are a good friend. And I wish you nothing but happiness. Bazinga, I don’t!

Leonard: Sheldon…
Sheldon: Doubleazinga! I do! Good luck following that.

Howard: She was my second cousin.
Sheldon: And the first woman you ever disappointed sexually. Ba-da-bazinga!

Wil (filming on his phone): Oh, Internet, this is so going all over you.
Sheldon: Jeepers, I’m drunk.

Leonard: Actually, you did do one of them together.
Sheldon: Here.

Howard: What is this?
Sheldon: You’re upset. The convention is to bring an upset person a hot beverage.

Howard: No, but what is it?
Sheldon: Chicken broth. It seemed culturally appropriate. Also, there was a single cube of chicken bouillon in the cupboard when I moved in and it’s been bothering me for the last eight years. So, as they say, two birds.

Raj: All right. More Sailor Moon for me.
Sheldon: I just threw up the bachelor party.

Leonard: Do you think maybe it’s tight because you’re wearing long underwear?
Sheldon: Yes, of course that’s why it’s tight.

Leonard: All right, let me rephrase the question. Why are you wearing long underwear?
Sheldon: You’re kidding. Shouldn’t the question be why aren’t you?

Leonard: No, it should be: why are you?
Sheldon: Leonard, these rental tuxedos have been worn by hundreds of sweaty strangers. I don’t like my own sweat touching my skin, how do you think I feel about theirs?

Assistant: Why don’t you slip this on?
Sheldon: Said the hangman offering a noose.

Howard: Make all the jokes you want, but there’s only one of us here brave enough to almost do what I almost did.
Sheldon: Ah, much better.

Leonard: You must be burning up.
Sheldon: A little. But not more than your urethras will be after whatever’s in those pants swims up them. Well, I cut quite the dashing, yet hygienic figure, don’t I? I look like the Flash about to get married. Oh! A tissue! A tissue! Oh, good Lord!

Leonard: He keeps emergency Purell in the car.
Sheldon: Keys! Keys! Keys!

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy?

Amy: Seven o’clock, right on time.
Sheldon: It’s not an accident. I waited outside your door for twenty minutes.

Amy: Well, dinner’s almost ready.
Sheldon: I must say, I was surprised you chose to spend our date night in your apartment. As I mentioned, the Pasadena City Council is debating longer crosswalk times, and later, the LEGO store is having a midnight madness sale. You ask anyone, that’s a hot date.

Amy: Tempting choices, but I have something special planned for tonight.
Sheldon: What can be more special than having an adequate amount of time to cross the street on your way to buy a tiny LEGO Indiana Jones?

Amy: With our friends moving forward in their relationships, I’ve decided that we should make progress in ours as well.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord. Two years ago, we didn’t even know each other, and now I’m in your apartment after dark. How much faster can this thing go?

Amy: I had a feeling you’d be reluctant, which is why I’m going to dip into my neurobiological bag of tricks.
Sheldon: Oh, you brain monkeys kill me. Dip away.

Amy: I have devised an experiment that I believe will increase your feelings for me in an accelerated time frame.
Sheldon: And how do you propose to do that? Uh, hope you’re not thinking about some sort of LSD thought control. Because there’s only one mind-expanding drug that this man enjoys, and that’s called school.

Amy: Human beings form emotional attachments as they grow up. In your case, to your mother, superheroes, et cetera. I’m going to attempt an experiment that will get you to transfer those feelings to me.
Sheldon: Well, seems what’s on the menu tonight is malarkey with a big side of poppycock.

Amy: We’ll see. Let’s start with a little romantic dinner music, shall we?
Sheldon: Super Mario Bros. theme?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: I see what you’re doing. You’re attempting to build on the work of Ebbinghaus by triggering an involuntary memory of me playing that game, admittedly the happiest 600 hours of my childhood, but it won’t work.

Amy: Fine. There’s no reason we still can’t have a lovely dinner. Why don’t you have a seat.
Sheldon: Da-da-da da-da dum, boink, boink.

Amy: May I offer you something to drink?
Sheldon: You know I don’t drink.

Amy: Not even strawberry Quik?
Sheldon: I love strawberry Quik. It’s my favourite pink fluid, narrowly beating out Pepto-Bismol.

Amy: Oh, I know. I think it will go nicely with what I have prepared for dinner.
Sheldon: Spaghetti with little pieces of hot dog cut up in it!

Amy: Just like your mommy used to make.
Sheldon: Oh yummy, yummy! We should do this more often. Uh-oh.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon and Leonard are playing three dimensional chess.
Sheldon: Bishop to queen four, level two. Check.

Leonard: Sheldon, knight takes bishop. You all right?
Sheldon: I’m fine.

Leonard: Are you? You left your queen exposed from above, you trapped your knight in the corner, and you keep sighing and saying, why me?
Sheldon: Very well. Can I ask you a question about women?

Leonard: We got you that book last year. Wasn’t everything in there?
Sheldon: No, I’m having a relationship problem with Amy. And by the way, that book gave me nightmares.

Leonard: Well, if it makes you feel any better, I screwed things up pretty good with Penny.
Sheldon: Look at us, Leonard, engaging in the social convention of men bellyaching about their ol’ ladies.

Leonard: I guess we are. So, what’s going on?
Sheldon: Believe it or not, Amy has embarked on a campaign to increase my feelings for her by making me happy.

Leonard: I’m sorry, that must be very difficult for you.
Sheldon: It’s awful. This morning, she arranged for me to be an Amtrak junior conductor for the day. It, it’s usually only open to children. She got them to make an exception.

Leonard: Shame on her.
Sheldon: They let me blow the whistle, Leonard.

Leonard: She’s good.
Sheldon: I know. And it gets worse. Her efforts are causing me to have affectionate feelings for her at inappropriate times.

Leonard: You mean, like in bed or in the shower?
Sheldon: No! Would you please stop referencing that infernal book? For example, this morning, I was calculating the random motion of virtual particles in a vacuum, when suddenly the particles morphed into an image of Amy’s dandruff gently cascading down onto her pale, slightly hunched shoulders. Oh, what has that vixen done to me, Leonard? And how do I make it stop?

Leonard: Well, if you had a physical relationship, I’d say propose during sex. Turns out that’s a real mood killer.
Sheldon: I assume we’re talking about you now?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: So, that’s how this works? I complain, and then you complain, and no one offers any solutions?

Leonard: Pretty much.
Sheldon: Well, no wonder the women are winning.

Amy: We’re playing doctor. Star Trek style.
Sheldon: I’m in hell, Leonard. Don’t stop.

Leonard: Sheldon, what channel is NASA TV?
Sheldon: 289, right between the Game Show Network at 288 and the East coast feed of the Disney Channel on 290.

Amy: I love his eidetic memory, it’s so sexy. Sheldon, what are the ingredients in Pringles?
Sheldon: Dried potatoes, vegetable oil, corn flower, wheat starch, maltodextrin, salt, and my favourite ingredient of all, uniformity.

Raj: You’re nervous? I’ve been stress-eating for four days. Look at me. I’m wearing my fat pants.
Sheldon: Remarkable. In just under a half hour, 200 metric tons of fuel will ignite in a controlled explosion right beneath Howard’s keister. And all from a country whose entire contribution to the global economy, has been Tetris and mail-order brides.

Amy: Well, it was going to be mine.
Sheldon: Thank you for the invitation, but I have to decline because it doesn’t sound like something I’ll enjoy.

Leonard: Come on, Sheldon, it’ll be fun.
Sheldon: That’s what you said about The Green Lantern movie. You were 114 minutes of wrong.

Amy: Look at all these people in love. It kind of gets you thinking, doesn’t it?
Sheldon: It does, indeed. Leonard, is it awkward being here with Penny given that you recently proposed to her?

Bernadette: Why wasn’t it a real proposal?
Sheldon: He asked her during coitus.

Bernadette: There’s got to be some place special we could do it.
Sheldon: Leonard, where did you envision marrying Penny?

Bernadette: Great, well, who’s it going to be?
Sheldon: I’ll do it, provided I can perform the ceremony in Klingon.

Bernadette: No.
Sheldon: What do you see in her?

Raj: Oh, thanks, man.
Sheldon: You didn’t have to do that.

Leonard: Oh, wow.
Sheldon: Oh, dear. I was afraid of this.

Howard: What?
Sheldon: While a thoughtful gift, this comic book in this condition is worth at least a hundred dollars.

Howard: Yeah, so?
Sheldon: I bought you and Bernadette a gravy boat worth eighty-eight dollars. Which places me in your debt and I can’t be in your debt because someday you might ask me to help you move, or to kill a man.

Leonard: I doubt he’ll ask you to kill a man.
Sheldon: Well, what if it’s his only way out? I can’t risk it. Here is twelve dollars. Now, we’re even. Wait, wait, wait, I bought a card. Give me two dollars. And for the record, this is why I hate gift-giving.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: I think the Reverend Hofstadter is making an ironic connection between your statement about love and your rejection of his proposal in the bedroom.

Leonard: Thank you, Amy. Very touching. Howard and Bernadette, you are lucky enough to be best friends who love each other. And that’s the strongest kind of love because at its core, it has kindness, patience, and respect. Qualities that are hard to find in people these days.
Sheldon: Would you like some aloe vera? You just got burned. All right, my turn. Howard, Bernadette. Daq tu’ taH Daq yIn tlhej ghajtaH.

Bernadette: Sheldon! I told you no Klingon.
Sheldon: Fine, I’ll do it in English, but it loses something. The need to find another human being to share one’s life with has always puzzled me. Maybe because I’m so interesting all by myself. With that being said, may you find as much happiness with each other as I find on my own. The Klingon would have made you cry.

All: By the power vested in us, by the state of California…
Sheldon: And the Klingon High Council…

Leonard: This is it.
Sheldon: Boldly go, Howard Wolowitz.

Raj: Right now, Howard’s staring down at our planet like a tiny Jewish Greek god. Zeusowitz.
Sheldon: I must admit, I can’t help but feel a twinge of envy. He can look out the window and see the majesty of the universe unfolding before his eyes. His dim, uncomprehending eyes. It’s like a cat in an airport carrying case.

Raj: Peering through his telescope at the birth of the cosmos.
Sheldon: Whatever it is, we know his life will never be the same.

Scene: The university cafeteria.
Sheldon: Leonard, where do you stand on the anthropic principle?

Leonard: Interesting question. On the one hand, I always thought…
Sheldon: You don’t even know what it is, do you? The anthropic principle states that if we wish to explain why our universe exists the way it does, the answer is that it must have qualities that allow intelligent creatures to arise who are capable of asking the question. As I am doing so eloquently right now.

Leonard: I know what the anthropic principle is.
Sheldon: Of course. I just explained it to you. Now, where do you stand on it?

Leonard: Where do you stand on it? 
Sheldon: Strongly pro.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Yeah, wait, Raj, where do you stand on the anthropic principle?

Raj: I’m all for it.
Sheldon: Attaboy!

Leonard: Well, hang on. Why do you believe that he knows what it is and I don’t?
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard. Let’s not take a saw to the branch we’re sitting on, shall we?

Raj: Oh, okay. Sounds like it’s me and you, Sheldon. How about we sic some guppies on those puppies?
Sheldon: As I’ve stated before on numerous occasions, the only sea creature I would even consider being eaten by is the Kraken, because the last words I would hear are “Release the Kraken.” That never gets old. “Release the Kraken!” Oh, chills. Besides, I’m having dinner with Amy.

Raj: Oh, okay. I’ll just go home and be alone. Which is cool. I eat alone, I sleep alone, I cry alone, so, cool.
Sheldon: Darn. If you weren’t busy, I’d ask you to join us.

Leonard: Sheldon, are you sure you want to be bringing Raj on your date night with Amy?
Sheldon: Oh, absolutely. I have a contractual obligation to provide Amy with conversation and casual physical contact, but nowhere is it specified that I can’t outsource that to an Indian.

Amy: Sheldon, this place is so romantic. 
Sheldon: Oh, I’m glad you like it. Raj picked it out.

Amy: Well, when you see him, tell him I say thank you.
Sheldon: Tell him yourself.

Amy: I don’t understand. What’s he doing here?
Sheldon: I invited him.

Amy: On our date? Sheldon, that’s not okay.
Sheldon: Yes, it is. There’s a loophole in the Relationship Agreement.

Raj: My pleasure. Waiter? A bottle of champagne and three glasses. Oh, boy, isn’t this romantic?
Sheldon: Oh, I hope that’s a rhetorical question, because I have no clue.

Amy: Have I ever told you you’re like a sexy praying mantis? 
Sheldon: Every time you drink alcohol.

Amy: You know what’s wonderful about the praying mantis? They devour their mate.
Sheldon: Your point being?

Amy: Dessert is served.
Sheldon: I just had cobbler.

Amy: You know what? I’m done with this.
Sheldon: W-Where are you going?

Amy: I’m leaving.
Sheldon: You can’t leave. I need you.

Amy: You do?
Sheldon: Yes. You’re my ride.

Amy: Sheldon, you either say something meaningful and from the heart, or you and I are done.
Sheldon: All right. Please. Amy, when I look in your eyes and you’re looking back in mine, everything feels not quite normal, because I feel stronger and weaker at the same time. I feel excited and, at the same time, terrified. The truth is, I don’t know what I feel, except I know what kind of man I want to be.

Amy: Sheldon, that was beautiful.
Sheldon: I should hope so. That’s from the first Spider-Man movie.

Amy: I’ll take it.
Sheldon: Good. Now, I assume we’re splitting the cheque?

Howard: Funny. We’re always giving each other a hard time up here. It’s kind of like being in a frat. You know, joking, kidding around, hurting feelings.
Sheldon: Okay, my turn. Let me talk to him.

Leonard: Go ahead.
Sheldon: 2311 North Los Robles Avenue, Pasadena, California to International Space Station. Can you read me? Over. (Makes static noise)

Howard: Yes, I read you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Copy that. Over. (Static noise)

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: I am talking to a man in space. If you don’t have the (static noise) then he might as well be at the Coffee Bean over on Lake Street.

Howard: You’re out of your mind,Sheldon.
Sheldon: That’s a negative. My mother had me tested. Over. (Static noise)

Howard: Bye.
Sheldon: Over and out. (Static noise)

Raj: Hey, Stuart, come on in.
Sheldon: What are you doing here?

Stuart: Um, Raj invited me to go to the movies with you guys.
Sheldon: Excuse me. I didn’t authorize this.

Leonard: Sheldon, you are not in charge.
Sheldon: That’s mighty sassy for a man with a roommate performance review around the corner.

Raj: What’s the big deal? You guys are bringing your girlfriends. I didn’t want to sit by myself.
Sheldon: The big deal is I was expecting us to be an intimate group of five. Now, we’re going to be a faceless mass of six.

Leonard: It’ll be fine. Just, uh, pretend he’s Wolowitz.
Sheldon: Hmm. Do you like Raisinets?

Stuart: I can take them or leave them.
Sheldon: At the movies, Wolowitz always eats Raisinets.

Stuart: Would you feel more comfortable if I ate Raisinets?
Sheldon: Well, it’s hardly my business what you eat, as long as it doesn’t crunch during the film and it’s Raisinets.

Stuart: Okay. Should we go?
Sheldon: Yuh-uh, one more question, if you’re going to replace Wolowitz, I need to know a little more about you.

Stuart: All right.
Sheldon: Wolowitz went to MIT. What’s your educational background?

Stuart: I went to art school.
Sheldon: Equally ridiculous. Let’s go.

Scene: The cinema.
Sheldon: This insistence on hand-holding is preposterous.

Amy: Well, I like it.
Sheldon: Yeah, of course you do. You’re a girl. You like all kinds of hippy-dippy things.

Amy: Just watch the movie.
Sheldon: It’s not fair. Penny isn’t making Leonard hold hands.

Amy: There might be a reason for that.
Sheldon: Sweaty? Unhygienic? Looks dumb? Take your pick.

Amy: Penny said she’s not sure she wants to be Leonard’s girlfriend anymore.
Sheldon: Wrong. She just took a sip from his Diet Dr. Pepper.

Amy: So?
Sheldon: So, if she wants to end her pair-bond with Leonard, why on earth would she guzzle a witches’ brew of his soda and spit?

Amy: It’s complicated.
Sheldon: String theory is complicated. That’s just yucky. Don’t get any ideas. All right, for the sake of argument, let’s say that’s true. Why doesn’t Penny just end the relationship?

Amy: She’s not sure how she feels.
Sheldon: How can she not be sure how she feels? You know, when I have a feeling, I know it. Trains? Love them. Swordfish? I love them, too. They’re fish with a sword for a nose.

Amy: Regardless, don’t say anything to Leonard.
Sheldon: Now you’re asking me to keep a secret from my best friend, colleague, and roommate?

Amy: Yes, please, Penny will kill me.
Sheldon: Uh, fine. FYI, secret-keeping? Hate it. Hand-holding? Not a fan. Hammerhead shark? I love that thing. Yeah, it’s another fish with a tool on its head.

Stuart: Raisinet?
Sheldon: Shh, we’re trying to watch the movie. This is not working out with him.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: I think I might have tartar buildup. My tongue won’t go as far forward as it used to.

Leonard: I’m starting to get a sense of it. Don’t worry. I’ll take you to the dentist tomorrow.
Sheldon: Thank you. I appreciate that. You’re good people, Leonard. There’s something I need to tell you.

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: I can’t tell you.

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: I can’t tell you why I can’t tell you. So I guess there’s two things I can’t tell you.

Leonard: I wish there were more.
Sheldon: Good night. I’m sorry. This is really important.

Leonard: What is it?
Sheldon: I like The Transformers. Do you like The Transformers?

Leonard: Where exactly did your mother have you tested?
Sheldon: Leonard, the Transformers teach us that things are not always what they appear to be. You know, like, uh, a semi truck might be an alien robot, or, uh, someone in a romantic relationship, uh, might feel differently than they appear to. Or a conversation about The Transformers might actually be about someone in this room. I’m going to pause to let that sink in.

Leonard: Okay, I think I understand.
Sheldon: You do?

Leonard: The guy who seems like an emotionless robot is you, but your relationship with Amy is causing you to transform into a red-blooded man with sexual desires.
Sheldon: That is literally the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard.

Scene: Leonard’s room.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Are you sleeping?

Leonard: I was. Now I’m having a nightmare. What do you want?
Sheldon: Never mind. I still can’t tell you.

Scene: Penny’s bedroom. Sheldon is standing over Penny’s bed, knocking on the wall.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Penny wakes up and screams. Sheldon also screams)

Penny: Oh, my God. Sheldon?
Sheldon: You frightened me.

Penny: What are you doing in my bedroom?
Sheldon: Yeah, well, I knocked on the front door, but you didn’t hear it.

Penny: How did you even get in, you weirdo?
Sheldon: Yeah, really? I’ve seen strange men traipsing in and out of here for years, but when I do it, it’s weird?

Penny: What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Oh, I was having a little trouble sleeping and I just thought, uh, seeing as you’re up, we could talk.

Penny: Talk about what?
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t know, uh, weather, uh, fish you could do carpentry with, why Leonard is such an attractive and desirable boyfriend. Yeah, pick one, your choice.

Penny: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Did you know that Leonard has a perfect driving record and enjoys the insurance discounts that go along with that? Hubba-hubba.

Penny: Okay, go home, crazy man.
Sheldon: Yeah. Did you know that while Leonard is not considered a tall fellow in our country, in today’s North Korea, he’s downright average. Hey, talk about a keeper.

Penny: Okay, what did Amy tell you?
Sheldon: Oh, very well. I can’t keep up this clever charade any longer. She told me that you were thinking of ending it with Leonard.

Penny: Okay, you listen to me. I think it’s really sweet you’re trying to protect your friend, but this is none of your business. Got it?
Sheldon: Excuse me. This is not about protecting my friend. I’m a big fan of homeostasis. Do you know what that is?

Penny: Of course not.
Sheldon: Homeostasis refers to a system’s ability to regulate its internal environment and maintain a constant condition of properties like temperature or pH.

Penny: Worst bedtime story ever.
Sheldon: My point is I don’t like when things change. So, regardless of your feelings, I would like you to continue dating Leonard. And also, while we’re on the subject, you recently changed your shampoo. I’m not comfortable with the new scent. Please stop this madness and go back to green apple.

Penny: Okay, honey, I have a lot to figure out, and until I do, you are not to say a word to Leonard. Do you understand?
Sheldon: I do. You clear on the shampoo issue?

Penny: Get out.
Sheldon: Penny?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Please don’t hurt my friend.

Penny: That is the last thing I want to do.
Sheldon: Thank you. Coconut? What were you thinking? Are you a hula girl?

Amy: Hang on, please. Hello?
Sheldon: Yeah, just a heads-up: Penny knows that you blabbed about Leonard. She’s pretty mad.

Amy: I know. She’s yelling at me right now.
Sheldon: All right then, so we’re all on the same page. Yes.

Stuart: Temple of Yip.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Wolowitz would never play that card.

Stuart: All right, Lesser Demon Turtle.
Sheldon: Fairy God Monster, I win. Your desperate need for friendship makes you weak.

Raj: In case you didn’t follow that, I’m the coffee.
Sheldon: Leonard? Maybe you’d like to go with them to meet girls.

Leonard: Why would I be interested? I have Penny.
Sheldon: Yeah, for now. But that woman has a death wish, Leonard. She talks to strangers, she pets unfamiliar dogs, and it is ridiculously easy to break into her apartment. If I were you, I’d get a back-up.

Stuart: No, please don’t ruin this for me.
Sheldon: Do you remember how upset I was when they replaced Edward Norton as the Hulk?

Leonard: Yes, you walked around for a week saying, Sheldon unhappy with casting choice.
Sheldon: But, then Mark Ruffalo was the Hulk in The Avengers, and he was even better.

Leonard: What’s your point?
Sheldon: Call me a romantic. I like to think that your Mark Ruffalo is still out there somewhere.

Stuart: I like Mark Ruffalo, too.
Sheldon: Yeah, settle down there, fake Wolowitz. No one likes a kiss-up.

Penny: Ugh. Hey, Sheldon? Hi. This came for you today. It’s from your mom.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you, Penny.

Penny: M-hmm.
Sheldon: Yeah, wait, here. For your troubles.

Leonard: Mmm, doesn’t matter. Half the time, he just ends up playing with the box.
Sheldon: Yeah, it’s journals and research papers I wrote as a child.

Penny: Aw, how cute. Is this like a diary?
Sheldon: No, that’s my potty training journal.

Penny: Really, your potty training journal?
Sheldon: Yeah. And forgive my crude penmanship. I didn’t start typing until I was six.

Penny: August 7, 8:42 a.m. This is humiliating. What was wrong with diapers?
Sheldon: There are some charts in the back where I kept track of shape, colour and consistency.

Penny: Sorry!
Sheldon: I am glad you asked. Are you familiar with the Higgs boson?

Penny: Of course, it is, it’s been in the news. And it’s a very famous boson.
Sheldon: Nice try. Now, in 1964, Dr. Peter Higgs, accomplished self-promoter and physicist, he wrote a paper postulating the existence of a subatomic particle called the Higgs boson. Now, initially the paper was rejected, but recently, he was proven right, and now he’s on the fast track to win a Nobel prize.

Penny: Yeah, that’s basically what I said.
Sheldon: Yeah, the point is Higgs is being celebrated for work he did 50 years ago, so that got me thinking, perhaps I’ve already hit upon the idea that will win me my Nobel prize.

Penny: You really think there’s some kind of scientific discovery in here?
Sheldon: Well, this box only covers my work through nursery school. There’s a good deal more to come. I didn’t really hit my academic stride until I cut out that time-suck known as playing outdoors.

Leonard: So, you’re going to spend hours and hours combing through all this stuff?
Sheldon: That’s a good point. My time is much too valuable. You know, perhaps I should find someone to do it for me. You know, someone with a rudimentary understanding of science, but whose real talents lie in menial labour.

Leonard: Not gonna happen.
Sheldon: Well, if I didn’t think you could handle it, I wouldn’t be asking.

Penny: Maybe I could do it.
Sheldon: You, really? You can assess the quality of my work? Okay, um, here. I wrote this when I was five years old.

Penny: A proof that algebraic topology can never have a non self-contradictory set of abelion groups. I’m just a blonde monkey to you, aren’t I?
Sheldon: You said it, not me.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: All right, Ms. Jenson. Uh, before we begin, may I offer you a refreshment? Water, coffee, tea, a marijuana cigarette?

Ms Jenson: No, thanks. I’m fine.
Sheldon: Now, are you sure? Everyone’s smoking them. I think they’re the best.

Ms Jenson: I don’t do drugs.
Sheldon: Excellent, yeah. That was a ruse. They’re not the best. Physics is the best. And by the way, coffee was also an unacceptable choice. All right, so I see here you’re from Des Moines, Iowa. Uh, you’re summa cum laude in theoretical physics from Stanford University. Oh, and two years ago, you had a persistent ear infection. I hope that didn’t cause any hearing loss.

Ms Jenson: No, of course not. How did you know about that?
Sheldon: I did a comprehensive background check. Medical records, credit reports, criminal history. (Hiding mouth behind book)  I trust you paid off those parking tickets.

Ms Jenson: Yes, I did.
Sheldon: Hearing unimpaired, good.

Ms Jenson: Look, Dr. Cooper, I really want this position. It would be an incredible honour to work for a man of your brilliance.
Sheldon: Flattery will not get you this job, Ms. Jenson.

Ms Jenson: It’s not flattery if it’s the truth.
Sheldon: Oh, well, thank you. Welcome aboard.

Leonard: Sheldon, aren’t you going to introduce us?
Sheldon: No. I have people for that now. You’re up.

Alex: It’s nice to meet you. I’m so excited to be working with Dr…
Sheldon: Yeah, please reserve chitchat for your breaks, Ms. Jenson. FYI, there will be no breaks.

Raj: Has your, uh, assistant said anything about me?
Sheldon: Oh, in fact, she has. Uh, her exact words were, what is that guy’s problem?

Leonard: This should be fun.
Sheldon: Half chocolate, half vanilla, side by side, not swirled?

Alex: Yes.
Sheldon: Half a teaspoon of sprinkles?

Alex: Rainbow, not chocolate.
Sheldon: Two cherries?

Alex: One on top, one on the bottom.
Sheldon: Stems removed?

Alex: I’m so sorry, Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: It’s all right, Alex. I’m not mad at you, I’m just disappointed.

Alex: Um…
Sheldon: Uh, Alex, a moment. I need a word with Dr. Hofstadter. Do you think it’s appropriate for her to sit with us, given her station?

Leonard: Given her what?
Sheldon: If I’ve learned anything from British television shows on PBS, it’s that servants dine downstairs with their own kind.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: It’s a kindness, Leonard. Otherwise, you’re cruelly tempting them with a glimpse of a world that’s just beyond their soot-stained fingertips.

Leonard: What do you got?
Sheldon: I believe Alex may have unearthed the grade school science project that could be my ticket to the Nobel Prize. Behold.

Leonard: Magnets: What Do They Stick To? If the answer is metal, it’s not exactly groundbreaking.
Sheldon: The original title was “A Rederivation of Maxwell’s Equations Regarding Electromagnetism”” I dumbed it down because some of the more religious people in town were starting to say I was a witch.

Alex: She seems nice.
Sheldon: Notice people on your own time. We’re working.

Raj: The Fantastic Four reunited.
Sheldon: Yeah, you had a good run, Fake Wolowitz. We’ll remember you with nostalgic fondness, the way we do the dial-up modem, the VHS tape, or, or Leonard’s gym membership.

Raj: We’re not kicking him out. Stuart and I have become good friends.
Sheldon: Okay, one vote for, one vote against. Leonard, you’re the tiebreaker.

Leonard: I don’t have a problem with Stuart. Besides, he gives us a twenty percent discount at his comic book store.
Sheldon: Well, I don’t sell my friendship that cheaply.

Stuart: I can go thirty.
Sheldon: Welcome aboard, old chum.

Raj: Okay, the NASA Web site says Howard’s final descent has begun.
Sheldon: He left a boy, he returns a boy-sized hero.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: You know, I am very disappointed that I won’t be able to celebrate Howard’s accomplishment tonight.

Amy: Me, too. But we’ll see him tomorrow.
Sheldon: Yes, it’s just that in all the years I’ve known him, he’s never had the opportunity to receive my admiration. I was excited to see the look on his face when it finally happened.

Penny: You’re unbelievable.
Sheldon: I know.

Penny: How about boys versus girls?
Sheldon: Oh, that hardly seems fair. But I guess any team that I’m not on has a decided disadvantage.

Penny: Once again, unbelievable.
Sheldon: Yeah, once again, I know.

Penny: All right, round one. Here.
Sheldon: Got it.

Penny: Present! Yeah!
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard. Now, how can you not get that?

Leonard: In what universe is that a present?
Sheldon: It’s not a present, it’s the present. Look. There’s you and me. There’s Penny and Amy. We’re playing Pictionary. In the present.

Later
Sheldon: It’s a quark-gluon plasma.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: It’s asymptotically free partons inside a quark-gluon plasma.

Leonard: Nothing with quarks.
Sheldon: It’s an observational rebuttal of the Lambda-CDM model of the universe.

Leonard: How could you miss that?
Sheldon: Hey, if you want someone to guess chocolate chip cookie, you draw a glass of milk next to it.

Leonard: Penny got it.
Sheldon: Yeah, only after I eliminated all the obvious answers. You’re welcome.

Penny: Relax, we got time, this is so fun.
Sheldon: There.

Penny: Soon.
Sheldon: Come on, Leonard, I am spoon-feeding this to you.

Penny: Yep!
Sheldon: Wait, no, no. No. The word is Polish. See, look. Polish sausage. And the, the model of the solar system developed by Nicolaus Copernicus, a Polish astronomer. And then, finally, if that wasn’t enough, which it should have been, this is Madame Curie killing herself by discovering radium, who, although she was a naturalized French citizen, was Polish by birth.

Penny: Excuse me, the word is polish. See? Small P.
Sheldon: Ah. So it is. I guess we both share blame on this one.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon, you’re always full of fun little facts. Where did the expression got your ass handed to you come from?
Sheldon: Don’t know.

Penny: I wonder if it’s from, like, ancient Rome where they’d actually chop somebody’s ass off and then go, here. You know, to appease Loseroneous, the god of losers.
Sheldon: I am not a loser. Pictionary is not a true test of any real intelligence or skill.

Leonard: Mmm, in all fairness, Pictionary has verbal skills, visual skills. It’s a pretty well-rounded game.
Sheldon: Lot of big talk from a man who can’t draw a chocolate chip cookie.

Penny: All right, fine, pick another game. Amy and I will beat you at anything.
Sheldon: All right. Let’s play Physics Fiesta.

Penny: Oh, come on, what is that?
Sheldon: It’s a game that I just invented, in which the participants answer physics questions in remedial Spanish. Um, ¿Dónde está el boson de Higgs?

Leonard: En el acelerador de particulares.
Sheldon: Bueno, mi amigo.

Penny: No, no, we’re not playing some dumb made-up game.
Sheldon: All games are made up. They’re not found in nature. You don’t just dig in the ground, come across a rich vein of Rock’em Sock’em Robots.

Leonard: No good, Sheldon doesn’t float.
Sheldon: That is true. I have a higher than normal body density. If I run too deep a bath, I drown.

Amy: All right, let’s keep it simple. How about darts?
Sheldon: No, that’s not fair either.

Penny: Why not?
Sheldon: Darts is a bar game. You’ve been frequenting drinking establishments since you were of legal age.

Leonard: Yeah, that’s when it started.
Sheldon: Well, regardless, she has a distinct advantage in all tavern-based competitions. Pool, beer pong, wet T-shirt contests, they’re all out.

Amy: We could go to the cadaver lab at UCLA and play real-life Operation.
Sheldon: No.

Penny: Okay, glasses off. Find Waldo.
Sheldon: Hurry up, find him, find him.

Leonard: I’m trying. Don’t yell at me.
Sheldon: For goodness’ sake, he’s wearing a hat, glasses, and a red striped shirt.

Penny: Yes, we win again.
Sheldon: How could you not find him?

Leonard: Remember, show your work.
Sheldon: I’m okay. I’m okay. I’m not okay.

Penny: Mwah!
Sheldon: Stop that.

Penny: Mwah!
Sheldon: Amy, do something. Amy, help. Amy, stop that. Amy, Penny, both of you, stop it.

Amy: On the count of three. One, two…
Sheldon: Wait. I’m a little concerned. Blueberries are rich in antioxidants.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: So, with all those antioxidants, what if I run out of oxidants?

Leonard: Sheldon, we haven’t won a game all night. Now, you either stick your face in that pie or I’m gonna stick that pie in your face.
Sheldon: That’s rude.

All: Not now!
Sheldon: Oh, ow, blueberry in my nose, blueberry in my nose!

Stuart: To Stuart, your comic book store is out of this world. Just like the guy in this picture was.”
Sheldon: For the record, he also thinks the Walgreens and the dry cleaners are out of this world.

Leonard: Have you noticed that Howard can take any topic and use it to remind you that he went to space?
Sheldon: Interesting hypothesis. Let’s apply the scientific method, perform an experiment.

Howard: Anywhere but the Space Station. On a good day, dinner was a bag full of meat loaf. But, hey, you don’t go there for the food, you go there for the view.
Sheldon: It’s fascinating. Let me see if I can duplicate the result. Howard, I’ve always thought the lemon was an underrated fruit. Care to weigh in?

Howard: Not really.
Sheldon: Oh, well.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: What kind of tea would you like?

Amy: I think I’m gonna try green tea mixed with lemon zinger.
Sheldon: Two tea bags in one cup? You’re not at a rave.

Amy: So, listen, Sheldon, I was thinking, since this is gonna be our first Halloween party as boyfriend and girlfriend, I thought it might be fun for us to go in a couples costume.
Sheldon: I couldn’t agree more.

Amy: Really? I find that inconsistent with everything I know about you.
Sheldon: Oh, oh, on the contrary. Couples costumes are one of the few benefits of being in a relationship. Now imagine this, you and I entering Stuart’s party and all eyes turn to see America’s most beloved and glamorous couple.

Amy: Yeah?
Sheldon: R2-D2 and C-3PO. Dibs on Threepio.

Amy: Sheldon, when I said couples costume, I meant like Romeo and Juliet or Cinderella and Prince Charming, not two robots from some silly movie I don’t even like.
Sheldon: Okay, I’m gonna let that slide because I know you’re hopped up on tea bags.

Amy: I make compromises for you all the time. Just this once, can’t we find something that we’re both happy with?
Sheldon: Fine. How about one of the most beguiling and influential couples of the 20th century? Hewlett and Packard. Dibs on Hewlett. What? You want to be Hewlett?

Raj: On Sesame seed Bunzillas.
Sheldon: Night of the Living Garlic Bread?

Raj: It’s funny because bread sounds like dead.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, but these are just ordinary foods with the names bent into tortured puns. The dishes themselves are in no way Halloweenie.

Leonard: Hello, boys.
Sheldon: What are you smiling at?

Raj: So, I thought the photo booth for the party could either be creepy like a mummy’s tomb, or they also have the Tardis from Doctor Who.
Sheldon: A Tardis makes no sense. It’s a time machine from a science-fiction show. It has nothing to do with Halloween. That being said, if you don’t get a Tardis, you stink and your party stinks.

Howard: I don’t care. Get the Tardis.
Sheldon: Yes! This party just became a major rager.

Howard: Okay, here it is. Bernadette said you guys are all sick of me talking about my trip to space. Is that true?
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: No.
Sheldon: We seem to have different approaches here. I was going for helpful honesty. I have no idea what you’re doing.

Raj: It’s called being nice.
Sheldon: Okay. If you think being nice will get him to shut up, I’ll try it.

Howard: You know what, guys? Never mind. I just won’t talk about the greatest achievement of my life ever again.
Sheldon: Look at that, the problem solved itself.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: What if we were to go as dinner table favourites salt and pepper?

Amy: You know salt makes me retain water and my cousin William was ground to death in a pepper factory accident. How about Raggedy Ann and Andy? I loved them growing up.
Sheldon: No, I don’t think so. Those dolls represent three things I do not care for, clowns, children and raggediness. I think it’s a lost cause.

Amy: No. There are certain things that say to the world, I have a boyfriend, and he’s not made up. Matching costumes, hickeys and sex tapes. Pick one.
Sheldon: What’s a hickey?

Amy: Sheldon, get in here.
Sheldon: I should’ve picked hickey.

Amy: I’m Raggedy Ann, and he’s Raggedy C-3PO.
Sheldon: It was a compromise. I lost.

Raj: You’re welcome, ladies.
Sheldon: Paradigm-shifting news, gentlemen. (Switches game off)

Raj: Dude! I was about to Bollywood this bitch.
Sheldon: Earlier today, I invited Professor Stephen Hawking to join me in the popular online game Words with Friends. Moments ago, he accepted my request. Do you understand what that means?

Howard: That somewhere right now Stephen Hawking is saying, damn it, I meant to click no.”
Sheldon: I’ll walk you through it. The game is not called Words with Strangers. No, it’s not even called Words with Acquaintances. It is called Words with…

Raj: I’m not finishing your sentence. You pulled the plug on my funk.
Sheldon: Friends! It’s Words with Friends! Which Stephen Hawking and I officially are. Now all I need is a bunk bed with a slide, I’ll have everything I’ve ever wanted since I was six years old.

Leonard: That’s really nice, Sheldon, I’m happy for you.
Sheldon: And I’m happy for you, too. You are now friends with someone who is officially friends with Stephen Hawking. Enjoy it, boys. You may have peaked.

Howard: Sheldon, I know Stephen Hawking. I worked with him.
Sheldon: And if they ever come out with a game called Words with People You Once Worked With, you’ll be off to the races.

Leonard: Sheldon, I don’t think this actually means…
Sheldon: Hold that thought! Professor Hawking has made a move. Boy, oh, boy. Oh, it’s only a matter of time before we’re coming up with fun nicknames for each other. I’ll be Coop. He’ll be Wheels. If he’s okay with that. (Leaves)

Scene: Amy’s laboratory.
Sheldon: Yes. I play the word quiver with a triple letter and a double word score for 72 points. That ought to let the air out of your tyres, Hawking.

Amy: Wow, my boyfriend is friends with Stephen Hawking and my new dandruff shampoo doesn’t smell like tar. Everything really is coming up Amy.
Sheldon: It is glorious. One of the greatest intellects of our time has agreed to engage with me in a gentlemanly battle of wits. And I’m spanking him so hard his grad students won’t be able to sit down.

Amy: You know, when one male dominates another, his testosterone level rises.
Sheldon: What’s your point?

Amy: It’s exciting to think you might be getting a testosterone level.
Sheldon: Ooh, my friend Stephen just played the word act for 18 points. That’s right, I call him Stephen now, because I checked, and he was not okay with Wheels.

Amy: Oh, you could turn his act into extract (pronounced with emphasis on act), and it would be for double points.
Sheldon: Amy. Why would you give me a word? Now, if I play extract it would be cheating.

Amy: Sorry.
Sheldon: Although, I could play the completely unrelated and better word extract (pronounced with emphasis on ex). Ethical conundrum avoided. Thanks, brain.

Raj: Sheldon, you okay?
Sheldon: It’s been three days. Why hasn’t Stephen Hawking played a word?

Raj: The guy’s a genius. Maybe you weren’t challenging enough for him.
Sheldon: Not challenging? I was humiliating the man. I was thinking of writing a book called A Brief History of the Time I Made Stephen Hawking Cry Like a Little Girl.

Howard: There’s the problem. You can’t beat Hawking like that. He hates to lose. Everyone knows the guy’s a big baby. I mean, forget the wheelchair, he should be in a stroller.
Sheldon: Really?

Howard: One time when I was working with him, he said that Johnny Depp was in The Matrix. I told him he was wrong, but he kept insisting. So I looked it up online and showed him. Well, the next day, he had a pizza party, and everyone got invited but me. And then he was all, your invitation must have gotten lost in the matrix.
Sheldon: Good Lord, what have I done?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Play. Play. Play. Play. Play.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: Trying to use a Jedi mind trick to control Stephen Hawking. Play. Play. Ugh! He must be wearing a tinfoil hat or something.

Leonard: I did a bad thing.
Sheldon: Does it affect me?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Then suffer in silence. Play. Play. Play. (Knock knock knock) Stephen Hawking. (Knock knock knock) Stephen Hawking. (Knock knock knock) Stephen Hawking.

Leonard: Penny started taking a class. She wrote a paper, she didn’t want me to read it, I went behind her back and I read it anyway.
Sheldon: Stephen Hawking hates me.

Leonard: I don’t know what to do. I mean, the paper’s terrible. But if I tell her, she’ll know that I read it and she’ll get really mad.
Sheldon: I was beating him so bad, he doesn’t want to be friends anymore. Why does everyone love me except Stephen Hawking?

Leonard: Is it possible we’re having two different conversations?
Sheldon: How would I know? I’m not listening to you.

Leonard: Hang on. Okay, here’s what we’re gonna do. Chess clock. We each get five minutes to talk about our problems. We’ll take turns. Each turn will consist of a statement and a helpful response from the friend. Begin.
Sheldon: I humiliated Stephen Hawking in a game of Words with Friends. He stopped playing, and now we’re not friends anymore.

Leonard: He’s probably busy. You’re worried about nothing. Give it a couple more days. I’m sure he’ll play, and you’ll see that everything’s fine. My turn. I can’t let Penny hand in a bad paper, but how do I tell her it’s bad without letting her know that I read it?
Sheldon: Hmm. Beats me. Now, I know Hawking’s not busy because I can see he’s playing other people right now.

Leonard: Maybe since you’re so good, he’s taking his time to meet the challenge. I want Penny to enjoy school…
Sheldon: Wolowitz told me he’s a big baby. But I didn’t know that, and I played extract for 82 points. It’s all Amy’s fault. She told me to play it. I have got to cut her loose.

Leonard: Sheldon, I wasn’t done talking. She hands in the paper tomorrow. I know I could help her. And she’s my girlfriend. I, I should be allowed to help her. Why aren’t I allowed to help her?
Sheldon: Yeah, I hear you, brother.

Leonard: No. You need to give me some advice.
Sheldon: Fine. Women, huh?

Leonard: No, specific to my situation.
Sheldon: Blonde women, huh?

Leonard: Empathetic.
Sheldon: It sucks to be you.

Leonard: I quit.
Sheldon: Leonard, wait. No. I listened to your dumb thing. Leonard, come back. Leonard, come back. Leonard, come back.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Oh, of course, it only works on the weak-minded.

Howard: You ever hear back from Hawking?
Sheldon: No. It would appear as if I’ve lost him. Stupid brain.

Raj: It’ll be okay.
Sheldon: How can it be okay? Stephen Hawking’s a genius and he talks like a robot. It’s everything I’ve ever wanted in a friend.

Raj: Yeah, but if he’s a sore loser, maybe you’re better off without him.
Sheldon: You’re right. I guess I just have to make lemonade out of the two of you. He played! He played! Coop and Rolling Thunder are together again. He was okay with that nickname.

Howard: So, now all you have to do is let him win.
Sheldon: Yeah, way ahead of you. I will play the word at for two measly points, throwing the game and thus securing my friendship with the smartest man in the world.

Howard: What are you waiting for? Hit send.
Sheldon: I can’t. Losing on purpose is intellectually dishonest.

Raj: So don’t do it.
Sheldon: Oh, but I want to be Hawking’s friend.

Howard: So do it.
Sheldon: Oh, but if I do, I’ll be a phony, a sellout, a Hollywood poser.

Raj: Then don’t do it.
Sheldon: I won’t. This feels right. My mother always said, to thine own self be true.

Howard: Good for you.
Sheldon: ‘Course she also told me that every animal in the world got on one boat, so what does she know? And send.

Penny: Hmm, how about, gee, Penny, you’re smarter than I thought. You may be the one in school, but I’m the one who learned a lesson. I’m so stupid, Penny. Duh.
Sheldon: She sounds exactly like you.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon’s phone rings.
Sheldon: It’s Stephen Hawking.

Leonard: Well answer it. I want to hear.
Sheldon: Professor Hawking, how nice of you to call.

Stephen Hawking: Hello. I really enjoyed our game, Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: Oh, me, too.

Stephen Hawking: Or should I say Dr. Loser? Ha, ha, ha.
Sheldon: Yes, congratulations. You won fair and square. Uh, very impressive, sir.

Stephen Hawking: Do you like brain teasers?
Sheldon: Oh, I love brain teasers.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello, I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper. Welcome to Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun with Flags. Before we get started, I’d like to announce the winner of our design your own flag competition. But I can’t. The only entry was from GameyGamer75, and I know that was a jpeg of your buttocks. Now this week we have a very special episode where we explore the flags of the popular entertainment franchise, Star Trek. And to help me, I’m pleased to introduce Internet personality, former star of Star Trek: The Next Generation, and the only guy I know lucky enough to be immortalized in one sixteenth scale. Set phasers to fun for my friend, Wil Wheaton.

Amy: Cut.
Sheldon: What’s wrong?

Amy: Don’t worry, it wasn’t terrible. Just, this time, try to say it the way people sound. And action.
Sheldon: My friend, Wil Wheaton.

Wil: Hi, Sheldon. Thanks for having me. I’m excited to be here.
Sheldon: So, Wil, what do you have for us first?

Wil: Um, no offence, but I’ve been acting since I was a kid. I think I can handle a Web show without a lot of direction.
Sheldon: It’s true. In 1982, Wil played the voice of Martin the mouse in The Secret of NIMH. You moved me.

Amy: Yes. And so far, we’re still not getting our money’s worth. Let’s try it again. Everybody’s having fun. And action.
Sheldon: So, Wil, what do you have for us first?

Wil: Problem, first-time director?
Sheldon: Oh, none that I could see. I saw a man who loved flags almost as much as I do. I got goose bumps.

Amy: He was overacting on purpose.
Sheldon: Really? He reminded me of a young William Shatner.

Amy: You gonna let him speak to me like that?
Sheldon: Well, you’re my girlfriend and I don’t want you to be upset. Then again, Wil Wheaton’s my friend and I don’t want him to be upset. Hmm, this is a sticky wicket. (To Wil) What do you think?

Amy: Can I speak to you for a second?
Sheldon: I’ll be right back. Feel free to play with yourself.

Amy: I don’t care for your friend, he’s being rude to me. You need to ask him to leave.
Sheldon: Amy, I can’t just ask Wil Wheaton to leave. He’s a minor celebrity. Once you explain who he is, many people recognize him.

Amy: Fine. Then maybe I should go.
Sheldon: Could you? That would solve everything. You are the best. I’ll see you at dinner tonight?

Amy: You sure you wouldn’t rather have dinner with your friend Wil Wheaton?
Sheldon: Come to think of it, I would! You, little lady, are on fire.

Leonard: Hey, look who’s out after dark, like a big boy.
Sheldon: I was out raising heck with Mr. Wil Wheaton. Four hours more and we would have closed down the HomeTown Buffet.

Leonard: I thought you had plans with Amy.
Sheldon: Yeah, I did, but then Wil called Amy a pain in the A-S-S. She got huffy and left, then Wil and I headed out to dinner. That place really did remind me of my hometown. Because there we also have a HomeTown Buffet.

Leonard: Hold on. Wil and Amy had an argument?
Sheldon: Yes, quite the kerfuffle.

Leonard: Then Amy got mad and left?
Sheldon: Walked right out the door.

Leonard: And you?
Sheldon: Enjoyed a delightful dinner at a reasonable price. The manager recognized Wil and let us sit right next to the frozen yoghurt machine. Right next to it. I was closer to it than I am to you right now.

Leonard: Buddy, I think Amy might be upset.
Sheldon: Why’s that?

Leonard: Because your friend was rude to her, and then you went to dinner with him.
Sheldon: You’re just repeating what I said. It’s like living with a lactose-intolerant parrot.

Leonard: Trust me, call her.
Sheldon: Fine. It’s a shame you didn’t go to dinner with us, because the buffet you’re about to enjoy only serves humble pie, a dessert much less tasty than frozen yoghurt. I was this close.

Amy (on skype): What?
Sheldon: You’ll appreciate this. Leonard has some ridiculous notion that you’re mad at me. Tell him you’re not mad at me. Go ahead, set him straight.

Amy: I’m mad at you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hmm. Eat one of your Luna bars. Very often when women think they’re angry, they’re really just hungry.

Amy: I’m not hungry. Your friend insulted me, and you didn’t do anything.
Sheldon: Precisely, I didn’t do anything. Now does someone feel like checking her emotional math?

Amy: Sheldon, I’m your girlfriend, and you should have taken my side. That’s it. End of story. Good night.
Sheldon: Wow, Amy’s mad and Leonard was right. What a weird day.

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Angry Amy.

Amy: What?
Sheldon: I’ve been thinking about what happened, and I hope this gift will make things better.

Amy: Star Trek DVDs? Why would I want this?
Sheldon: First of all, you’re welcome. And furthermore, not being familiar with Wil Wheaton’s body of work, there was no way for you to know you were being rude to a national treasure. Get ready for 130 hours of I told you so. (She hands him back the DVDs and slams the door) Fine. I’ll just tell you what happens. Episode one, Encounter at Farpoint. Fade in. The new Enterprise heads out on its maiden voyage to contact the Bandi people of Deneb IV. Enter Wesley Crusher, played by my buddy… (Amy opens door, grabs DVDs, slams door again) She’s hooked.

Penny: Hey. What brings you in?
Sheldon: Penny, if you wouldn’t mind, I’d like to have a conversation about girls.

Penny: I had a feeling we’d have a talk like this sooner or later. Are you finally getting fuzz in weird places?
Sheldon: Penny, please, I’m on the horns of a relationship dilemma. And for the record, I had a full pubis of hair by the time I was 19.

Penny: And for the record, bleugh. So what are you drinking?
Sheldon: Well, it’s been a rough day. I usually go chamomile tea, but I don’t think that’s going to cut it.

Penny: You could have a Long Island Iced Tea.
Sheldon: Will that calm my nerves?

Penny: It’s calmed the pants off me a couple of times.
Sheldon: Sold.

Penny: Oh. So, the heart you got from the wizard giving you trouble?
Sheldon: The trouble isn’t with me, Penny, it’s with your gender. Someday, scientists will discover that second X chromosome contains nothing but nonsense and twaddle.

Penny: Yeah, Amy told me what happened. Look, just apologize. It’ll warm her twaddle.
Sheldon: It’s a Band-Aid at best. See, the core problem is that Amy and Wil do not like each other. Which is baffling because they’re both crazy about me. And I like them, which indicates they’re bright and interesting and/or were on Star Trek.

Penny: Honey, you can’t make people like each other.
Sheldon: Not true. Leonard made me like you. And let me tell you, that was a hard row to hoe. Cheers, pal. Ooh. Boy, that is a treat that’s hard to beat. Get the Mad Hatter on the horn, I’m having a tea party.

Penny: You might want to pace yourself.
Sheldon: I drink tea all the time. I think I know what I’m doing.

Penny: Far be it from me to criticize a man with a full pubis. Look, Sheldon, your problem is not Wil Wheaton, okay? Your problem is the way you treated Amy.
Sheldon: My problem is I’m out of tea.

Penny: Come on, someone insulted your girlfriend and you just let him do it. I thought you Texas guys stood up for your womenfolk.
Sheldon: Penny, please, I think I’ve evolved beyond my simple rustic upbringing.

Penny: Sorry.
Sheldon: On the other hand, that low-down polecat done wronged my woman.

Penny: Welcome to Long Island, Tex.
Sheldon: Amy deserves better. You know, when we buy the Planter’s deluxe mix, she eats all the Brazil nuts so I don’t have to look at them. She’s a unique blend of saint and squirrel.

Penny: Yeah, that she is. Here you go.
Sheldon: I’m a callous egomaniac. She’s gonna leave me.

Penny: No, she won’t.
Sheldon: No, she won’t. I’m great.

Scene: Wil Wheaton’s house.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Wil Wheaton! (Knock, knock, knock) Wil Wheaton! Wait, how many was that?

Wil: Hey, Sheldon, what’s up?
Sheldon: Wouldn’t you like to know?

Wil: Have you been drinking?
Sheldon: Just tea. S’the best tea I’ve ever had.

Wil: Why are you here?
Sheldon: I’ll tell you. I’m from Texas. Need I say more?

Wil: Yeah, actually, a little more would be helpful.
Sheldon: You insulted my woman. I’m here to defend her honour. Two! It was two. (Knock, knock, knock) Wil Wheaton! Now prepare yourself for what may come.

Wil: Oh, Sheldon, do you really think we’re gonna fight?
Sheldon: My fists are not up here because I’m milking a giant invisible cow. They’re up to beat an apology out of you.

Wil: Okay, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: Well, that was a long bus ride for not very much.

Wil: Are you okay?
Sheldon: You’re asking a lot of questions, Wil Wheaton. As a matter of idle curiosity, which of your shrubberies do you feel would benefit from a thorough vomiting? Never mind, I’ll choose. (Vomits) You were so good in Stand by Me.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello, I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper. Welcome to Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun with Flags. Get ready for a very special episode where we explore the flags of the popular entertainment franchise, Star Trek. And to help us, I’m pleased to introduce a special guest, surprisingly, it only took gas money and the promise of free food to get him here, Mr. LeVar Burton.

Amy: Cut. Yikes, this guy is worse than Wil Wheaton.
Sheldon: I don’t know what she’s talking about, but I’m obligated to agree with her. She’s my girlfriend.

Raj: What are you drawing over there?
Sheldon: It’s a hypothetical containment field for a Frisbee-sized wormhole that could serve as a portal to a parallel universe.

Leonard: You know, a lot of scientists believe that making contact with other life-forms would probably not end well for us.
Sheldon: It’s a Frisbee-sized wormhole, Leonard. You can block it with a Frisbee. Calm down. (Hands Howard the napkin)

Howard: Do you expect me to build this?
Sheldon: I expect you to wipe the pudding off your chin. Gentlemen.

Howard: Two forty-four, Right on schedule. Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, hello.

Howard: Raj and I are heading over to the genetics lab to pet the glow-in-the-dark bunny. Want to come with us?
Sheldon: No, thank you.

Raj: Are you sure? They turn off the lights, and it’s like a cute little laser show that poops all over the place.
Sheldon: I’m quite sure. Good day.

Howard: Well, where are you going?
Sheldon: Where are you going?

Raj: We just told you.
Sheldon: I just told you.

Howard: No, you didn’t.
Sheldon: Well, it’s your word against mine; see you in court.

Leonard: If you’re wondering why I’ve been staring through the peephole, I’m trying to get a look at this guy who’s coming over to Penny’s.
Sheldon: To be honest, I didn’t know you were here.

Leonard: It’s not a big deal. He’s just in her history class. They’re working on a project together. I don’t even know why I care. You know what, I don’t care.
Sheldon: You think you don’t care?

Leonard: This is silly. I have nothing to worry about.
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t know. I mean, statistically speaking, I’m sure you have something to worry about.

Leonard: What do you mean?
Sheldon: Well, if we assume your looks are average, yeah, right off the bat, fifty percent of men on Earth are more attractive than you. That’s one point five billion handsome lads standing by, waiting to rain on your parade.

Leonard: Well, yeah, but this isn’t just about looks. I’m, I’m way above average in a lot of other things.
Sheldon: Not height, vision, athleticism, or ability to digest dairy products.

Leonard: I’m talking about important things like emotional maturity.
Sheldon: You were just spying on your girlfriend through a peephole.

Leonard: I liked it better when you thought I wasn’t here.
Sheldon: I’m not saying you don’t have attractive qualities. Your choice of friends is impeccable, you’re a good sleeper, and last but not least, you buy the grapes I like. You’re a real catch compared to some snoring guy with a fridge full of lousy grapes.

Leonard: None of this matters. I trust that Penny cares about me, and nothing’s gonna happen with this guy.
Sheldon: Well, unless of course he’s a skilled hypnotist.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: While unlikely, it’s still a statistical possibility. She might be performing sexual acts with him and not even know it.

Leonard: Now you’re just being ridiculous.
Sheldon: Am I? The mind’s a mysterious thing, Leonard. He could be having the time of his life while she thinks she’s a chicken pecking for corn.

Leonard: I’ll be right back.
Sheldon: I thought you left a long time ago.

Howard: Wormhole generator test? (On screen a wormhole appears)
Sheldon: The first forty-three parallel universes I’ve checked proved to be empty. I see no reason to suspect universe number forty-four will be any different. (Puts his head in the wormhole)

Howard: Yeah, really sorry.
Sheldon: Sorry? You may not realize it, but I have difficulty navigating certain aspects of daily life. You know, understanding sarcasm, feigning interest in others, not talking about trains as much as I want to. It’s exhausting. Which is why, for twenty minutes a day, I like to go down to that room, turn my mind off and do what I need to do to recharge.

Raj: And what does forty-three mean?
Sheldon: You don’t need to know, you don’t deserve to know, and you will never know.

Scene: The room in the basement. Sheldon enters, takes out a box, takes a beanbag from the box, then starts playing keepie-uppie,
Sheldon: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight… Drat. I’m never going to get to forty-three again. One, two, three, four… Rats.

Leonard: All right, you brought this on yourself. Sheldon, get him.
Sheldon: If a zombie bites you, you turn into a zombie. However, if a mummy bites you, all you turn into is some schmo with a mummy bite. So, like a zombie, that’s been eaten from the waist down, you, sir, have no leg to stand on.

Leonard: Good boy. Here’s a cookie.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you.

Howard: Yep. For as long as I can keep my mother out of it. If you want to check it out later, it’s parked right out front, space 294.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, 294?

Howard: Yeah.
Sheldon: That’s my parking spot.

Raj: Why do you have a parking spot? You don’t have a car. You don’t even drive.
Sheldon: It doesn’t matter. That’s my spot.

Leonard: Maybe they reassigned it because you never use it.
Sheldon: Well, I’m not using my nipples, either. Maybe they should reassign those.

Howard: Sheldon, someday, if you get a car, I’m sure they’ll give you another parking space.
Sheldon: I don’t want another parking space. I want my parking space. It’s perfect. It’s a corner spot, cutting the risk of door-dings in half. It’s a mere 28 steps from the building entrance. The nearby tree provides shade on hot days and is also home to a delightful squirrel. Which is fortuitous because most squirrels are real jerks.

Howard: Fun story. Meanwhile, you still don’t have a car.
Sheldon: Don’t try to change the subject. This is about a parking space. It has nothing to do with cars.

Howard: Are you listening to yourself?
Sheldon: I always listen to myself. It’s one of the great joys of my life. Now, get your car out of my spot.

Howard: Nope.
Sheldon: Very well. You leave me no choice.

Scene: The parking spot. Sheldon is trying to push Howard’s car out of the spot.
Sheldon: What are you looking at, you stupid squirrel?

Leonard: Well, he’s not wrong. Howard did go to the International Space Station.
Sheldon: Yeah, that was five weeks ago. How much longer is he gonna milk that cow?

Leonard: Sheldon, let it go. It’s not a big deal.
Sheldon: No, no, this is a slippery slope, Leonard. It starts with a parking space, where does it end? It’s like my dad always said, first they say you can’t drink and drive, next thing you know, you can’t let your 10-year-old take the wheel while you sleep one off in the backseat.

Leonard: All that story does is make me feel bad for your mother.
Sheldon: Leonard, you’re my best friend. Why don’t you ever take my side?

Howard: Give it back.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, but could you be more specific?

Howard: My Iron Man helmet. Koothrappali saw you take it. Give it back.
Sheldon: Oh, that. Well, see, I wanted it, and you weren’t using it. Apparently, those are the rules we live by now. Payback, it truly is the B word, isn’t it?

Howard: Sheldon, that is a five hundred dollar limited edition collectible, and I want it back.
Sheldon: I’d love to help you out, but unfortunately (puts helmet on), I’m using it.

Howard: Fine. I’m taking your diploma.
Sheldon: Go ahead. That’s the only doctorate you’ll ever get. It smells funny in here.

Leonard: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Cookie.

Leonard: I don’t have any.
Sheldon: Well, I’m not giving it away. (Enters apartment. Howard is sitting naked in his spot with a laptop on his lap)

Howard: Hi Sheldon.
Sheldon: He’s in my spot. Leonard, make him stop being naked in my spot.

Howard: He wasn’t using it. And I needed a nice cool piece of leather to wiggle my naked ass on.
Sheldon: Get off there.

Howard: Give me back my Iron Man helmet.
Sheldon: Give me back my parking space.

Howard: You don’t need a parking space. You don’t have a car.
Sheldon: You don’t need an Iron Man helmet. You’re not Iron Man.

Amy: This is so exciting. I’m feeling all tingly. Although that could just be my newly defoliated bikini zone.
Sheldon: Keep a lookout. This place is swarming with campus security. They will not hesitate to scold us.

Amy: Freaking pigs.
Sheldon: Oh, yeah. Okay, now, pull your car into the spot and let’s get out of here.

Amy: Wait, I’m leaving my car here?
Sheldon: Yes, and be sure and put on the emergency brake. Really makes these things tough to budge.

Amy: Before I park, come in the back seat. I want to show you something I had done today.
Sheldon: All right, colour me intrigued.

Amy: What do you think?
Sheldon: I think you’re high on paint fumes. And boy, that’s a lot of Band-Aids.

Scene: The parking spot. Sheldon has set up his office in it.
Sheldon: Morning, Professor Stevens. Don’t look at that whiteboard. That’s my math, not your math. Keep walking, nosey.

Howard: What the hell are you doing?
Sheldon: Oh. You said I’m not using my space, so I’m using it.

Howard: Okay, you need to move now.
Sheldon: No, I don’t.

Howard: You can’t stay there forever.
Sheldon: Actually, I have a plastic baggy strapped to my leg that says I can. Give up, Wolowitz. You’ve chosen to tangle with a superior intellect you can’t defeat. There is nothing you could possibly do to… (Howard starts sounding his horn. Sheldon puts on earphones)

Howard: Those aren’t gonna help you, Sheldon,
Sheldon: Oh, yes, they are. I mean, what?

Howard: I’m warning you, Sheldon!
Sheldon: Your threats are empty, nothing can move me. (Howard starts pushing his chair with the front of the car) Stop that.

Howard: Get out of my spot.
Sheldon: No. That’s it. I am calling campus security. You prepare for the scolding of your life.

Leonard: What are you idiots doing?
Sheldon: He’s trying to kill me, Leonard. Video games and rock music have desensitized him to violence.

Howard: It’s not just a parking spot. He can’t handle the fact that I’m a bigger deal than he is now.
Sheldon: Oh, preposterous. I have been solely responsible for this university’s six loop quantum gravity calculations, I have changed the way we think about Bose-Einstein condensates, and I am also the one who got Nutter Butters in the cafeteria vending machine. Maybe you missed that news while you were floating around like a goof in outer space. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have work to do.

Howard: Oh, like you’ve never thought of doing that. Don’t hate me just because I lived the dream. (Horn beeps. Sheldon is sitting naked in Howard’s car.) 
Sheldon: Hey, sweet ride.

Howard: What are you doing in there?
Sheldon: Just breaking in your new car.

Howard: Stop that. You stop that.
Sheldon: You know what they say? Revenge is a dish best served nude.

Raj: Hey, got a minute?
Sheldon: Oh, of course, come in. (Raj opens door to reveal Howard) This is an authentic Chinese throwing star, and I must warn you, I have seen many people throw them in movies.

Howard: I had no idea how much that spot meant to you. Anyway, I called President Siebert and told him it’s not worth fighting over the spot, so you keep it, and I’ll park in the structure across the street.
Sheldon: Well, Howard, thank you. It’s quite a gesture on your part. You’ve shown yourself to be the bigger man.

Howard: Thank you.
Sheldon: Which I find totally unacceptable. I must be the bigger man. Therefore, you may use my spot until such time as I learn to drive or get a Batmobile.

Howard: Wow, okay. Well, thanks. I don’t know what to say.
Sheldon: There is nothing to say. Except I’m the bigger man. I’m not kidding. Say it.

Howard: You’re the bigger man, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, stop. And I believe this is yours. FYI, if you wear that into a bank, they will tackle you to the ground.

Howard: I’d like to propose a toast, to burying the hatchet.
Sheldon: To burying the hatchet.

Shopkeeper: Can I help you?
Sheldon: Yes. According to information I gleaned from Yelp, you had great success when a santeriasuzy37 brought you a pair of leather slacks stained with chicken blood. I believe I may have a similar problem. This cushion experienced a nude revenge wiggle.

Shopkeeper: A what?
Sheldon: A naked man sat on it. Now, here’s my concern, his diet is rich in fatty deli meats. What test do you have to detect lipid residue?

Shopkeeper: Lipid what?
Sheldon: Lipid residue. An anal autograph. A colon calling card, if you will.

Shopkeeper: Tuesday okay?
Sheldon: Don’t rush it. We may be dealing with befoulment on a molecular level.

Shopkeeper: Let me write you a ticket.
Sheldon: Is that your son?

Shopkeeper: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: Looks like that laptop’s seen better days. If you’re interested, I’m selling this. It’s only two years old, 16 gigabytes of RAM, Intel core i7 processor, and I can personally guarantee it has spent less than 20 minutes resting on an astronaut’s penis.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Is anyone else troubled by the Spider-Man theme song?

Leonard: Why would it trouble you? It’s, like, your third favourite cartoon theme song.
Sheldon: It is, right behind do-do-do-do-do Inspector Gadget., and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, heroes in a half-shell.

Howard and Raj (together): Turtle power!
Sheldon: However, the Spider-Man lyrics posit that Spider-Man, Spider-Man does whatever a spider can.

Howard: Yeah, so?
Sheldon: I can think of many things Spider-Man can’t do that a spider can. One, crawl in your ear and die. Two, legally leave Guatemala without a passport. Three, have sex with a spider.

Howard: It’s torture. Especially with her dad. We have nothing in common.
Sheldon: You know what I like to do when I’m forced to speak with those beneath my intellectual station? I bring up an interesting topic, like the difference between Spider-Man and spiders.

Howard: Thanks, Sheldon. I’ll try that with my father-in-law.
Sheldon: No, you can’t use that one. That’s mine. Uh, try this one for an ice-breaker. Uh, despite popular lore, there is no place in the continental United States, Alaska or Hawaii from which one can dig straight through the centre of the earth and come up in China.

Howard: Great, thank you.
Sheldon: Actually, you can’t have that one either. It’s too good. Sorry.

Raj: What about you, Sheldon? Do you have any plans tonight?
Sheldon: Sadly, yes. Amy’s taking me to a memorial service. It’s for one of her colleagues who is of Asian descent, so my planned conversational gambit is to casually remark that no matter how deep they dig his grave, he’ll never make his way back to China.

Leonard: That should lighten the mood.
Sheldon: What can I say? I put the fun in funeral.

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. Oh, right, funeral. (Knock, knock, knock) (solemnly) Amy.

Amy: Hello, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I’m not allowed to wear my Silver Surfer neck tie, but you can wear a bathrobe?

Amy: I think I’m too sick to go to the funeral.
Sheldon: You’re sick? You poor kid. Well, see ya.

Amy: Sheldon, aren’t you gonna take care of me?
Sheldon: Me? No. No, I’m not that kind of doctor.

Amy: But our relationship agreement clearly states that when one of us is sick, the other must take care of them.
Sheldon: Oh, no, I see the confusion. No, the intent behind that clause was to force you to take care of me when I’m ill. When you’re feeling better, you’ll think that’s funny.

Amy: Never mind. Good night, Sheldon.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. I made a commitment in writing to comfort you in times like this. Additionally, you are my girlfriend, and I care about your well-being.

Amy: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. Now let’s get this over with.

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: 102.2. Exactly what it was half an hour ago. It’s like you’re not even trying to get better.

Amy: Sheldon, you don’t get over the flu in half an hour.
Sheldon: Well, not with that attitude.

Amy: I have to say, I’m finding your bedside manner a little lacking.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I just want you to get better as soon as possible. And with that goal in mind, let me ask you a question. Do you believe in the placebo effect?

Amy: Of course I do. There have been many studies proving its validity.
Sheldon: Great. Now, this may look like a Tic Tac, but it is really a powerful medication specifically designed to cure your illness as well as freshen your breath.

Amy: Sheldon, this isn’t helping. Why don’t you just let me get some rest.
Sheldon: How can you sleep? I’m not done making you feel better. I still have to put a cold rag on your head, sing to you and apply VapoRub to your chest.

Amy: You, you want to rub something on my chest?
Sheldon: Yes. All over it.

Amy: Maybe we should start with that.
Sheldon: Now you’re being a responsible patient. Now, you may notice some tingling.

Amy: That was great. Rub my chest again. (Knock at door) 
Sheldon: No. I need to get you down for a nap. And for some reason, that VapoRub gets you all fired up. (Opens door)

Bernadette: How’s the poor thing?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m hanging in there. Thanks for asking.

Bernadette: Okay, Amy, I brought you some drugs we were working on in the lab. This is proving really good for congestion, but there’s a slight chance it can make your tears burn like acid, so if you take it, happy thoughts.
Sheldon: Uh, I’m going to draw you a soothing bath. Where’s your bath thermometer?

Amy: I don’t have a bath thermometer.
Sheldon: Fine. Then I’m going to draw you a nerve-wracking bath of indeterminate temperature.

Amy: Oh, Sheldon, am I glad you’re back. Taking a turn for the worst. I think I’m going to need another bath.
Sheldon: I’m surprised to hear that. See, the other day, I was concerned that you weren’t recovering, so while you were sleeping, I took a cheek swab and had it cultured in the lab.

Amy: Oh?
Sheldon: I got the results back. Have you developed any of the following symptoms? A growing nose, or perhaps a warm sensation in the trouser region? Also known as full-blown liar, liar, pants on fire.

Amy: All right, all right. But I really was sick at the beginning. It’s just been so nice having you take care of me.
Sheldon: It hurts that you would lie to me, Amy. I thought our relationship was based on trust and a mutual admiration that skews in my favour.

Amy: I feel terrible I did this.
Sheldon: It pains me to say it, but I think some form of penalty is in order, so as to discourage this type of behaviour in the future.

Amy: I suppose that’s fair. What do you suggest?
Sheldon: In a perfect world, I’d lock you in a stockade in the public square. That probably requires a permit.

Amy: I could not be allowed to go to the opening of the next Star Trek movie.
Sheldon: Oh, that seems overly harsh. I mean, you gave in to a human weakness, you didn’t kill a man. You know, it’s a tad old-school, but my father was not one to spare the rod when my brother would sneak into his truck and drink his driving whiskey.

Amy: Are you saying you want to spank me?
Sheldon: I don’t want to. But it looks like you left me no choice.

Scene: Amy’s apartment. 
Sheldon: Are you prepared to receive your punishment?

Amy: One second. I want to put on some music.
Sheldon: Why?

Amy: I don’t want to disturb the people next door while you discipline me.
Sheldon: Very well, then. Get over my knee. Let’s begin.

Amy: Oh, my.
Sheldon: Excuse me. You’re not supposed to be enjoying this.

Amy: Then maybe you should spank me harder.
Sheldon: Maybe I will.

Amy: Oh, great! I’ve always wanted to play Dungeons and Dragons.
Sheldon: Yeah, oh, I’m sorry. I should’ve mentioned this earlier. You’re not invited.

Amy: Why not?
Sheldon: Amy, from time to time, we men need to break free from the shackles of civility and get in touch with our primal animalistic selves.

Amy: By rolling dice and playing make-believe with little figurines?
Sheldon: Yeah, like a bunch of savages.

Leonard: All right, Sheldon, to start our quest you need to open this little Christmas gift I got you.
Sheldon: A Christmas gift? You know I don’t enjoy Christmas.

Stuart: What’s wrong with Christmas?
Sheldon: Oh, where to begin? Trees indoors. Overuse of the words ’tis and ’twas. And the absurd custom of one stocking. Everyone knows socks belong in pairs. Who uses one sock?

Howard:Pirate with a peg leg?
Sheldon: Actually that helps, thank you.

Leonard: Would you just look inside?
Sheldon: Oh, a scroll. I like scrolls. They’re my third favourite system of transmitting the written word. After stone tablets and skywriting. You have all been summoned to join a thrilling Dungeons and Dragons adventure. Your quest begins in a secret northern village of elves who have all been massacred. I like where this is heading. Your task is to rescue their leader from a dungeon of ogres. Oh, that’s a saucy twist. That leader’s name, Santa Claus. No, no, no.

Leonard: It’s actually ho, ho, ho, but you’ll get the hang of it. Thought it’d be fun to make a quest with a holiday theme.
Sheldon: Fun? Mixing Dungeons and Dragons with Christmas is like making a sandwich of grape jelly, the best-tasting jelly, and petroleum jelly, the worst-tasting jelly.

Leonard: Okay, there are ogre tracks and a trail of broken candy canes in the snow. Sheldon, what do you do?
Sheldon: I signal my contempt for your cruel plan to shove Christmas joy down my throat by making a gesture that says get a load of this guy.

Raj: But, a cannon? Am I really out of the game?
Sheldon: Lucky.

Penny (entering): Hey, guys. I don’t mean to interrupt your little game, but I thought you’d like to see what you’re missing out on. So, Bernadette? Bernadette’s wearing leopard-print pumps and a rack-tastic red dress from Forever 21. And there’s Amy, showing all kinds of ankle. In an outfit I’m assuming is from Forever 63. And I, myself am wearing a little number that got me out of two speeding tickets and jury duty.
Sheldon: I know they’re making a rhetorical point, I just don’t know what it is.

Howard: I walk up to the large chest, bury my face in it and go “blublublublublublublublu”
Sheldon: I open the chest.

Stuart: Oh, boy, happy place, happy place.
Sheldon: Wait, Svaty Vaclav was the Duke of Bohemia.

Leonard: Seven, six.
Sheldon: Wait, wait. Svaty Vaclav is better known as Good King Wenceslas from the beloved Victorian Christmas carol.

Stuart: Somebody sing the damn song.
Sheldon: Good King Wenceslas looked out, on the feast of Stephen. When the snow lay ’round about, deep and crisp and even

Leonard: The walls are getting slower.
Sheldon: Brightly shone the moon that night, though the frost was cruel. When a poor man came in sight gathering winter fuel.

Stuart: How did you know that?
Sheldon: It was simple. I combined a well-known historical fact about Bohemia with the memory of my grandparents, Mee-Maw and Pop-Pop, singing Christmas carols while I sat in front of the fire and tried to build a high-energy particle accelerator out of Legos.

Leonard: Okay, continuing our quest.
Sheldon: W-W-Wait. There’s still four more verses. You don’t sing a song and not finish it. Hither, page, and stand by me, if thou know’st it, telling. Yonder peasant, who is he? Where and what his dwelling? Brightly shone the moon that night, though the frost…

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is still singing.
Sheldon: Ye who now will bless the poor, shall yourselves find blessing. Ba-da-bum.

Howard: Done?
Sheldon: I think the word you’re looking for is bravo.

Leonard: Okay, you leave the room and find yourself standing before a pool of melted snowmen.
Sheldon: Melted snowmen? Are there carrots and lumps of coal in the water?

Leonard: I don’t know. What’s the difference?
Sheldon: Well it’s a game of the imagination, Leonard. Paint a picture.

Leonard: Fine. You leave the room and find yourself standing before a pool of melted snowmen. There are carrots and lumps of coal in the water.
Sheldon: What happened to the top hats and the corncob pipes?

Leonard: You see those, too.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s like I’m really there.

Leonard: What are you drinking there? A little eggnog?
Sheldon: Yes. What, is there a problem?

Leonard: No, it’s nice to see you enjoying a holiday beverage. Pretty Christmassy.
Sheldon: Since when is eggnog a Christmas drink? Eggs are available all year ’round. I’ve been known to enjoy this poolside.

Leonard: Come on, Sheldon. You know all the Christmas stories, and the carols, you’ve got an eggnog moustache going on there. Just admit it. You’re getting a little Yuletide spirit.
Sheldon: Oh, don’t be silly. Christmas is a bunch of baloney created by the tinsel industry. Why is this so important to you?

Leonard: I grew up in a house full of crazy academics. Instead of leaving Santa milk and cookies, we had to leave him a research paper. And in the morning, you could tell he’d been there because the paper would be graded.
Sheldon: No wonder you love Christmas. That sounds amazing.

Leonard: It wasn’t amazing. I got a C-minus four years in a row.
Sheldon: Yeah, I’m familiar with your work. C-minus was your gift.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is writing numbers on a whiteboard.
Sheldon: All right. I think I cracked the code to lower the drawbridge.

Stuart: My carpal tunnel’s acting up.
Sheldon: Play through the pain.

Stuart: I take out my skeleton key and run to Santa to unchain him.
Sheldon: But first, I cast a spell of paralysis on Stuart and Howard.

Howard: Wait, what are you doing?
Sheldon: You can’t talk, you’re paralyzed. I get right up in Santa’s big, fat face and say, well, well, well, jolly old Saint Nick, we meet again. Yeah, I believe the last time we spoke was in the Baybrook Mall in Galveston, Texas, when I was five years old, isn’t that right?

Leonard: Uh, okay.
Sheldon: My mother dragged me there and she plopped me down on your lap and you asked me what I wanted for Christmas. And I told you, my Pop-Pop, because that was the year my grandfather died. I missed him and I wanted him back.

Leonard: This is weird, right?
Sheldon: Pop-Pop was the only one in my family who encouraged me to pursue science. But you didn’t bring him back, did you? No, instead, I got Lincoln Logs. Well, you can build a lot of neat things out of Lincoln Logs, but Pop-Pop ain’t one of ’em. And now you’re here asking me for something, to save you. Well, sorry, Mr. Kringle, but today’s not your day. I’m leaving you here to rot, and I hope the ogres feast on your bones. I take the skeleton key, and I toss it into the chasm, and on the way out, I give Santa a swift kick in his bowl full of jelly!

Scene: The apartment, late at night. 
Sheldon: Santa?

Santa: Oh, hello, Sheldon. You should be asleep.
Sheldon: Well, then, you shouldn’t have jingle bells on your boots.

Santa: Oh. I’ve been wanting to talk to you. I’m sorry I disappointed you when you were a little boy. I can do a lot of magical things, but unfortunately bringing your Pop-Pop back isn’t one of them.
Sheldon: I understand.

Santa: But I do have something special for you. Close your eyes.
Sheldon: Oh, I hope it’s a train.

Santa: Oh, it’s better than a train.
Sheldon: Two trains?

Santa: Better.
Sheldon: I’m getting three trains.

Santa: Okay, open ’em. (It’s a cannon, pointed at Sheldon) This is for leaving me in the dungeon to be eaten alive by ogres!
Sheldon: Wait, uh, uh, hang on. In my defense…

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Well, I must say, Leonard, when I first heard your idea for Giant Jenga, I was sceptical.

Leonard: I can’t blame you. Tiny Twister was a complete bust.
Sheldon: No, I was wrong. The looming threat of being crushed under a pile of lumber does add a certain spice. I’ve never felt so alive. (Answers door) Oh, hello, Alex. Uh, let me go get you last night’s recordings.

Leonard: What recordings?
Sheldon: Well, you remember when you told me I talk in my sleep? Well, it occurred to me that, like most things I say, it’s probably pure gold. So I started recording it all, and now Alex gets to comb through eight hours of what I like to call Sheldon After Dark.

Leonard (jumping and knocking over the Jenga): What?
Sheldon: Jenga, I win!

Raj: I both hate you and want to be you. This is Ryan Gosling all over again.
Sheldon: Ah, gentlemen, what is on the conversational menu this morning?

Raj: Your assistant is totally hitting on this jerk and he loves it.
Sheldon: Well, that’s not acceptable. I mean, I’m her boss. She needs to be solely focused on my needs, not distracted by your pasty, androgynous brand of sexuality.

Leonard: I’m androgynous?
Sheldon: Oh, please. Look at you with your pouty bee-stung lips.

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: I want to thank you all for coming on such short notice. Uh, in the past, I’ve reached out to each of you individually, but I believe my present situation requires the collective wisdom of the group, which as you can see from your commemorative T-shirts I have dubbed Sheldon Cooper’s Council of Ladies.

Penny: What is happening?
Sheldon: I need your advice about a delicate workplace situation. Uh, to protect those involved, I’ll be changing their names.

Bernadette: Who’s involved?
Sheldon: Well, a short, bespectacled colleague of mine who lives in the shadow of his brilliant roommate. Let’s call this colleague Ricardo Shilly-Shally.

Penny: You’re talking about Leonard.
Sheldon: No, no, Shilly-Shally has red hair and, uh, he briefly served in the Mexican Navy. Anyway, despite the fact that he has a girlfriend, Shilly-Shally has been the recipient of inappropriate workplace flirtations from a young lady.

Amy: It’s your assistant Alex, isn’t it?
Sheldon: No. No. No. This is Tondelaya della Ventimiglia.

Penny: Wait, what the hell’s going on with Leonard and Alex?
Sheldon: No, uh, no, I’m sorry. Who’s talking about Leonard and Alex?

Penny: Fine. Ricardo and Tondelaya.
Sheldon: Okay, look, it’s not really about Ricardo and Tondelaya. It is really about her boss, who doesn’t quite know how to handle this situation and could use your advice, which is surprising because Dr. Einstein Von Brainstorm, he’s usually pretty smart about these things.

Amy: She’s right. But say the word, I got a lab full of cocaine-addicted monkeys with nothing to lose. One of them could end up in the backseat of her car. Or her shower.
Sheldon: Ladies, ladies, please. We’re not here to talk about Penny, okay? We’re here to talk about me. Uh, I mean Einstein Von Brainstorm. Oh, darn it! All right, I guess the cat’s out of the bag. Let me explain what’s going on. Ricardo is really Leonard.

Penny: We know what’s going on, Sheldon!
Sheldon: Well, what should I do?

Bernadette: Well, Alex is your employee. If she’s doing something that’s making Leonard uncomfortable, you should talk to her.
Sheldon: Oh, no, he’s not uncomfortable at all. No, he’s loving it. Yeah, he’s strutting around like he’s five-foot-six.

Bernadette: Sheldon, you need to talk to Alex right away.
Sheldon: Talk to her? That’s all you’ve got? With a cool name like Sheldon Cooper’s Council of Ladies, I really expected more. Give me back the T-shirts.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: Alex, check my schedule. What does my afternoon look like?

Alex: I think it’s pretty wide open. Oh, wait. Here’s something at four o’clock. Give Alex a talking to?
Sheldon: Well, that snuck up on us, didn’t it?

Alex: Is there a problem?
Sheldon: Let’s not call it a problem. Let’s call it an opportunity. To solve a serious problem.

Alex: What did I do?
Sheldon: You don’t know? Oh, you poor dear. Your ovaries are squirting so much goofy juice into your brains you don’t even know which way is up. You made an inappropriate sexual advance towards Dr. Hofstadter.

Alex: What? I didn’t make a sexual advance on anybody.
Sheldon: Now, there’s no need to get defensive. I’m not unsympathetic to your plight. My father used to say that a woman is like an egg salad sandwich on a warm Texas day.

Alex: What?
Sheldon: Full of eggs and only appealing for a short time.

Alex: This conversation is making me uncomfortable.
Sheldon: Yeah, you and me both, sister. Now, please understand, I don’t hold you responsible for your behaviour because, see, from an evolutionary standpoint, you’re a slave to your desire to reproduce. But during the work day, when you feel possessed by amorous intent, may I suggest that you suppress it by leafing through this illustrated book of sexually transmitted diseases? Let’s see here. Oh, yes. Check out this oozy doozy.

Alex: I have to go.
Sheldon: So does this fellow, but he can’t without it burning like hot soup.

Leonard: I’m missing something. (Enters apartment. To Sheldon) Did you say something to Penny about Alex?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. Yeah, and a fat lot of good it did me. All she did was get mad at you.

Leonard: Why would you do that?
Sheldon: I needed advice about a woman. I would have asked you, but if the last few years have proven anything, it’s that you can’t tell a uterus from a unicycle.

Leonard: At least I know not to blab to a girl about somebody flirting with her boyfriend.
Sheldon: Good to know. Yeah, a few more helpful hints like that, you may find yourself on the Council of Ladies. (Answering phone) Hello. I see. Uh, what time? Very well, then. Huh. That was the Human Resources Department at the university. Apparently, my assistant Alex has filed a complaint accusing me of inappropriate behaviour in the workplace.

Leonard: Oh, my God, what did you do?
Sheldon: Hmm, let me think. Nothing. I’m a delight.

Scene: The Human Resources Department.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Human Resources Department. (Knock, knock, knock) Human Resources Department. (Knock, knock, knock) Human Resources Department.

HR Woman: Come in.
Sheldon: Hello.

HR Woman: Ah, Dr. Cooper, have a seat.
Sheldon: Thank you.

HR Woman: I called you in today because your assistant Alex Jensen has lodged a complaint against you.
Sheldon: So I’ve been told. But I can’t understand what she has to complain about. I mean, she has a front-row seat as I make scientific history. There’s string cheese in my mini-fridge, and that’s for anyone. Yeah, and just yesterday I led her away from a life of sexual promiscuity by making her look at pictures of disease-ridden genitalia.

HR Woman: Cancel my next appointment. This is gonna take a while. Dr. Cooper, you said things to your employee that you just cannot say in the workplace.
Sheldon: Like what?

HR Woman: Well, according to Ms. Jensen, you said that she was a slave to her biological urges and called her an egg salad sandwich. I don’t even know what that means, but I’m gonna go ahead and tell you you can’t say it.
Sheldon: Oh! I see the confusion here. No, no, Alex thought I was singling her out. No. I meant that all women are slaves to their biological urges, you know? Even you. You’re a slave.

HR Woman: I’m a what?
Sheldon: Well, y-you, I-I’m just saying, you know, at a certain point in a woman’s menstrual cycle…

HR Woman: Whuh-ah! Woah! You can’t talk about that, either, Dr. Cooper. Your language is entirely inappropriate, and I’m gonna advise that you shut your mouth right now.
Sheldon: I don’t see why I’m the one being persecuted here. Dr. Hofstadter, he was bragging about his sexual desirability to anyone who would listen. You know, and Howard Wolowitz, he spent two years using university resources building a six-breasted sex robot. Oh, and at the office Christmas party, I heard Rajesh Koothrappali refer to you several times as Brown Sugar.

HR Woman (writing): Hofstadter… Wolowitz… and the last one was Rajesh Koothrappali?
Sheldon: Yes. No, yeah, but in his defense, that wasn’t racist. He’s also brown.

Howard: I’m sorry, I’m a feminist, I don’t notice things like how many breasts a robot has.
Sheldon: Well, hello.

Leonard: What are you doing here?
Sheldon: Actually, I came to speak to Mrs. Davis.

Janine: And I’m a little busy right now.
Sheldon: But I came to file a complaint. Somebody has made me feel uncomfortable in the workplace by using language of an inappropriate and sexual nature.

Janine: And who was that?
Sheldon: You, you dirty birdie. I-I thought about the things you said to me yesterday, and I realized I’m deeply offended. Now, be a dear and get me one of those complaint forms.

Janine: That’s it. All of you, in my office now!
Sheldon: And thanks to you, I know better than to ask if you’re menstruating. And based on your behaviour, I don’t have to.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: It has been pointed out to me that some of the things I said to you could be construed as offensive, and I would like to offer you my sincerest apology.

Alex: Thank you, Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: Yeah, additionally, you should know that the university has mandated that I take an online sexual harassment seminar so this sort of thing doesn’t happen in the future.

Alex: Okay.
Sheldon: Yeah. Now, unfortunately, uh, my time is much too valuable to waste on nonsense like this, so, um, I’m gonna need you to take it for me. Oh, and, uh, you’d better ace it, they’re pretty mad.

Leonard: Hey, will you steam my uniform next?
Sheldon: Interesting. Do you recall this conversation? Leonard, want to go halfsies on a steamer? No, Sheldon, we don’t need a steamer. Looks like that rumpled chicken’s come home to roost.

Leonard: Hey, hey, hey, hey. This is my Comic-Con makeup. I love you, but there are some things a man doesn’t share with his girlfriend.
Sheldon: That’s a wise policy. I once borrowed my sister’s makeup for a costume contest. Got a terrible case of pinkeye. But luckily, I was going as a zombie. I won second place.

Leonard: Well, it’s a lot smaller. It’s more about the comic books. The way these conventions used to be before they went all Hollywood.
Sheldon: So to answer your question, no, it’s not better.

Penny: Well, then why are you going?
Sheldon: It’s a comic book convention. You know, it’s like pizza or particle accelerators, even the stinky one’s still pretty good.

Scene: Leonard’s car.
Sheldon: I think you should turn on the GPS.

Leonard: It is on.
Sheldon: But the turn-by-turn voice option isn’t on. I know I’d feel more safe if you turn on the turn-by-turn voice option. I love the turn-by-turn voice option.

GPS (in Sheldon’s voice): Leonard, bear left and continue on Interstate 210.
Sheldon: Ooh, sounds like that fellow knows what he’s talking about. I’d put on my listening ears if I were you.

Leonard: What did you do?
Sheldon: I found a hack online. I was able to upload MP3 recordings of my voice to your GPS.

Leonard: Really?
Sheldon: Shh, he said it’s interesting.

Raj: You know, we’re not that far from Vazquez Rocks.
Sheldon: Oh, they shot a lot of Star Trek episodes out there.

Leonard: Yeah, that sounds fun.
Sheldon: Oh, smashing. Now, Leonard, do you know how to get there?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Yeah, well luckily, someone in the car does.

GPS: Recalculating. While we’re waiting, do you know which president signed the Intestate Highway System Act into law? The answer, coming up in 14 miles.
Sheldon: None of you will get it. It’s Eisenhower.

Raj: And we’re blending, and we’re blending, and we’re done.
Sheldon: I know Mr. Data isn’t supposed to smile, but here it comes.

Howard: Sheldon, how is that a fight pose?
Sheldon: Mr. Data’s weapon is his mind. I’m wielding it.

Raj: Stop!
Sheldon: Stealing is against the law!

Leonard: Mine, too. Anybody got any ideas?
Sheldon: Nope. The only thing left to do now is assign blame. (To Raj) Nice going.

Leonard: What kind of a person steals another person’s car in broad daylight?
Sheldon: What kind of person leaves his keys in the car?

Leonard: I thought we agreed this was all Koothrappali’s fault.
Sheldon: You’re right. Nice going.

Raj: What is wrong with people? Why don’t they stop?
Sheldon: Maybe we’re better off. What if we were to get in a car with a crazy person?

Leonard: Look at us, Sheldon. We’re the crazy people.
Sheldon: Well, perhaps we should hold up a sign that assures passing motorists of our mental competence.

Leonard: Come on, let’s just start walking. There’s got to be a gas station or something nearby.
Sheldon: What, you think just because you’re wearing a captain’s uniform, you’re in charge?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: All right.

Raj: Insurance is gonna buy you a new car. It’s not gonna de-funk my junk.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, a little less bellyaching. We’re Starfleet officers and a member of the Borg Collective.

Leonard: Please, Sheldon, I am so not in the mood.
Sheldon: Leonard, all our lives we have dreamed of finding ourselves inside one of the fantasy worlds we love. And look at us. At this moment, we are, in fact, a Star Trek landing party stranded in an alien and unforgiving environment, relying only on our wits, our fortitude and our moxie. As long as we have those things, nothing can stop…

Guys in Passing Car (throwing a drink over Sheldon): Nerds!
Sheldon: I hate this planet.

Scene: A diner.
Sheldon: Hello. Hello. Uh, uh, uh, four glasses of water, please. Anything for you guys?

Waitress: Why don’t you ask Scotty to beam you up?
Sheldon: Scotty was on the original series, and we’re Next Generation. So, joke’s on you.

Raj: Fine, then I guess it’s two against two. How do we decide?
Sheldon: Actually, it’s three against one.

Raj: What? What about the mission? You said we were a real-life landing party.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, we’re not. We’re an imaginary landing party who had real-life garbage thrown at us by real-life strangers who think we’re idiots. And to tell you the truth, I’m starting to feel like one. I want to go home now.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: Well, I say that’s the last time we ever go outside.

Bernadette (off): You don’t know his life.
Sheldon: There’s only one logical explanation. Somewhere in the desert we crossed into an alternate dimension where the women in our lives can finally appreciate great literature.

Raj: If it’s an alternate dimension, sounds like a job for a landing party.
Sheldon: Captain, what are your orders?

Leonard: I say we investigate.
Sheldon: Wait. They might be hostile.

Leonard: Sheldon, your food’s getting cold.
Sheldon: I’ll eat later. Right now, I’m suckling at the informative bosom of mother physics.

Raj: What do you think, Sheldon? Want an action figure that looks just like you?
Sheldon: Would it come with Kung-Fu grip?

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Don’t waste my time.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: A hush falls over the crowd as Cooper studies the board. He makes his move. He’s dividing both sides by I. He’s adding back the coefficient. He has a value for P. He’s plugging that back in. He takes the derivative, and he solves the equation. The crowd goes wild. Nobel! Nobel!

Kripke: Cooper?
Sheldon: Nobel. Kripke. Don’t look at my board.

Kripke: What’s that?
Sheldon: That’s a drawing of a really cool train. Don’t look at that, either. What do you want?

Kripke: I have some bad news. You’re working on a gwant pwoposal fow a new fusion weactow. I’m working on a gwant pwoposal fow a new fusion weactow. The university is only awowed to submit one pwoposal.
Sheldon: So they asked you to pack up your things and ship out. That’s hard cheese, Barry. You’re one of the good ones.

Kripke: No, they’re making us work together.
Sheldon: That’s ridiculous. I am one of the great minds of our generation. I work on a level so rarified you couldn’t even imagine it. I said stop looking at my cool train!

Penny (entering apartment): You doing okay, sweetie?
Sheldon: There is ominous music playing, and there is an afghan over my head. I don’t know where you’re from, but where I’m from, that means I’m not doing okay.

Leonard: Want me to make you some tea?
Sheldon: Tea is for when I’m upset. I’m not upset. The university’s forcing me to work with Kripke. I’m outraged.

Leonard: So, cocoa?
Sheldon: Yes, cocoa. Do you have any idea what it’s like to be paired with someone who’s so incredibly annoying?

Leonard: Oh, teacher! Me! Me!
Sheldon: See, I did all this great work, and now he’s just going to come along and ruin it. I am angrier than ever and filled with despair.

Leonard: Oh, no, no, no, I know this. Uh, hot apple cider with cinnamon sticks?
Sheldon: Yes, hot apple cider with cinnamon sticks!

Kripke: What the fwig, Cooper? We were supposed to meet in my office a half an hour ago.
Sheldon: And yet, now you’re in my office. Point, Cooper. Welcome to the Thunderdome, Kripke.

Kripke: We agweed to exchange copies of our work. Let me see yours.
Sheldon: Why don’t you show me yours first.

Kripke: You think I just few off the turnip twuck? We exchange at the same time.
Sheldon: How do I know you’re not going to take my ideas and publish them as your own?

Kripke: How do I know you’re not going to do that with mine?
Sheldon: Because I’m not interested in getting published in Mad magazine. Zingers fly fast in the Thunderdome, Barry.

Kripke: Are we going to do this or not? Thank you. So, we wead each other’s work, meet again tomowow?
Sheldon: Fine.

Kripke: Nice twy. This is bwank paper.
Sheldon: And I am sure it’s still more valuable than whatever’s in here.

Kripke: Cough it up, Cooper.
Sheldon: Very well.

Kripke: If this one’s bwank, too, I’m going to be fuwious.
Sheldon: Fine.

Amy:The monkey in my tobacco study has taken to smoking a pipe. I’m supposed to remove his brain to examine, but it’s hard because now he reminds me of my uncle. You’ve been awfully quiet tonight. Is everything okay?
Sheldon: I’m fine.

Amy: All right, well, how was work today? Did you exchange your research with Kripke?
Sheldon: Yes.

Amy: Sheldon, what’s going on?
Sheldon: I read his research, and, it’s leaps and bounds ahead of mine. Which means the mommy of the smartest physicist at the university is not my mommy as I had thought. It’s his mommy.

Amy: Sheldon, I wish there was something I could do to make you feel better. May I offer you a consoling hug?
Sheldon: What do we have to lose?

Amy: How’s that?
Sheldon: I feel like I’m being strangled by a boa constrictor. Why’d you stop?

Leonard: Come on, Sheldon, we’re going to be late.
Sheldon: I can’t go in today. I’m sick.

Leonard: You’re not sick. You just don’t want to face Kripke.
Sheldon: No, look.

Leonard: 128.
Sheldon: See?

Leonard: What did you do, put this in your tea?
Sheldon: Oh, dear. Now I’m not even smarter than you.

Leonard: Sheldon, Kripke’s not smarter than you. You just got stuck on a wrong path. Happened to Einstein. He got stuck on the unified field theory for decades.
Sheldon: Oh, don’t play the Einstein card. His great breakthroughs happened when no one knew anything. So everything was a great breakthrough.

Leonard: Sheldon Lee Cooper, I do not have time for this nonsense. Now, go put your clothes on, get in the car, and lets go to work.
Sheldon: All right, geez. What a grouch.

Kripke: Cooper, we have a pwobwem. Your work is weawy not at a wevew I expected it to be.
Sheldon: I know. Go ahead, mock me. Just use small words so I understand.

Kripke: Don’t pway dumb with me. We both know what your pwobwem is.
Sheldon: We do?

Kripke: You have a girlfwiend.
Sheldon: So?

Kripke: So my work would suffew, too, if I was getting waid all the time.
Sheldon: Yes. That is the reason. My work is suffering because of all the laid I’m getting.

Kripke: You wucky bastard.
Sheldon: What can I say, you know? She enjoys my genitals. I am giving them to her on a nightly basis.

Kripke: Okay, stop bwagging. You had some bwiwiant insights in here, but if we’re gonna make this work, you need to buckew down and focus.
Sheldon: I’ll do what I can. But it’s not going to be easy, because when I’m with Amy and our bathing suit areas mush together, boy howdy, is it magic

Penny: All right, I don’t understand. Why didn’t you just tell Kripke the truth?
Sheldon: Because the truth made me look bad, whereas a ridiculous bald-faced lie makes me look good. Anyway, if Kripke asks, tell him my coitus with Amy is frequent, intense and whimsically inventive.

Penny: Yeah. Sheldon, can I ask you a question?
Sheldon: Of course.

Penny: You ever going to sleep with Amy?
Sheldon: That’s awfully personal.

Penny: Maybe you don’t, I do. What’s the deal?
Sheldon: Well, word around the university is I’m giving her sex organs a proper jostling.

Leonard: All right, we’re down the rabbit hole. What are you doing?
Sheldon: Well, first of all, I’m quite fond of Amy.

Penny: Then what’s the problem?
Sheldon: Penny, all my life, I have been uncomfortable with the sort of physical contact that comes easily to others, hand-shaking, hugging, prostate exams. But I’m working on it, you know? Just recently, I had to put VapoRub on Amy’s chest. A year ago, that would have been unthinkable.

Penny: Okay. Hang on. Are you saying someday you and Amy might actually get physical?
Sheldon: It’s a possibility.

Penny (under breath while hitting Leonard): Oh, my God! (Out loud) Sheldon, I know this wasn’t easy for you, and I’m really glad we could have this conversation.
Sheldon: Fine.

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: Well, the equation balances, but it’s certainly not elegant.

Kripke: Whatever. You get any wast night?
Sheldon: Yes.

Kripke: Gave it to her good, huh?
Sheldon: No, I gave it to her well. Now, over here, I was thinking the turbulence could be reduced if we just put…

Kripke: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Was she naked, or was she weawing wingewie?
Sheldon: I didn’t notice.

Kripke: How could you not notice?
Sheldon: I was too busy squishing all the desirable parts of her body.

Kripke: Ah, you’re kiwing me, Cooper!
Sheldon: Can we get back to work?

Kripke: Sure, sure, sure. You guys ever use any toys?
Sheldon: Toys? I do have a model rocket next to my bed.

Leonard: I don’t know why I avoided the Harry Potter books for so long. These are great. I just started number six.
Sheldon: That’s a good one. Dumbledore dies in that one. Yeah, I know, I didn’t see it coming, either.

Leonard: Why would you say that?
Sheldon: You brought up the subject. I contributed an interesting fact on that subject. It’s called the art of conversation. Okay, your turn.

Leonard: That was a huge spoiler.
Sheldon: Good.

Leonard: What is wrong with you? If I did that, you’d bitch about it for weeks.
Sheldon: Oh, really, Leonard? Are you going to have another one of your hissy fits?

Leonard: Hissy fits? I have hissy fits?
Sheldon: Yes, and I have a theory why. Because of your lactose intolerance, you switched over to soy milk. Soy contains estrogen-mimicking compounds. I think your morning Cocoa Puffs are turning you into a hysterical woman.

Leonard: You are unbelievable. I don’t know why I put up with you. You’re controlling, you’re irritating.
Sheldon: There you go again, nag, nag, nag. You’re only proving my point, little lady.

Leonard: You know what? Screw you, Sheldon. You are the most annoying person I have ever met.
Sheldon: What? I’m annoying? You criticize my behaviour all the time. Sheldon, don’t talk about your bowel movements over breakfast. Sheldon, when the president of the university is giving a eulogy at a funeral, don’t yawn and point at your watch. Sheldon, don’t throw away my shirts ’cause you think they’re ugly. You’re impossible.

Leonard: That’s it. I don’t, I don’t have to put up with this.
Sheldon: Actually, I have your signature on a roommate agreement that says you do.

Leonard: Aw. Here’s what I think of your roommate agreement.
Sheldon: You pick that up right now.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Roommate agreement, section 27, paragraph 5, the roommate agreement, like the American flag, cannot touch the ground.

Leonard: I don’t care. I don’t have to do anything you say because I don’t think I want to live here anymore.
Sheldon: Where are you going?

Leonard: To live with Penny and not you, you crazy bastard.
Sheldon: Crazy bastard?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Leonard, wait.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Dobby the elf dies in book seven.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: One vintage Mr. Mxyzptlk action figure. That’s Leonard’s.

Amy: Children’s toy.
Sheldon: One Star Trek: The Next Generation phaser. That’s Leonard’s.

Amy: Children’s toy.
Sheldon: One Game of Thrones collector’s edition Longclaw sword. Oh, Leonard and I bought that together. That’s a bit of an ethical conundrum. Eh, I’ll keep it.

Amy: So, uh, what’s your plan moving forward?
Sheldon: Uh, suppose I’ll have to find and cultivate a new roommate. What a task that will be. Do you know how uncivilized Leonard was when I took him in?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Oh, it took me forever to get him on a bathroom schedule. He would just go whenever the mood struck him.

Amy: Like a dog-boy.
Sheldon: Exactly.

Amy: What if you could find a roommate who was a scientist and already familiar and comfortable with your ways?
Sheldon: That would be ideal. If a person like that existed, I would sign on, no further questions asked.

Amy: Great. Here I am!
Sheldon: Wait. Here who is where?

Amy: Me. Aren’t I your perfect roommate?
Sheldon: Um…

Amy: Think about it, Sheldon. I’m not a stranger, we’re intellectually compatible, I’m willing to chauffeur you around town, and your personality quirks, which others find abhorrent or rage-inducing, I find cute as a button. What do you think?
Sheldon: Um…

Amy: Tell me one reason why this isn’t a fantastic idea.
Sheldon: Um…

Amy: See? You can’t. I’m gonna go see if Leonard’s room is big enough for my water bed.
Sheldon: Um…

Scene: Penny’s apartment. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Good buddy Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Good buddy Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Good buddy Leonard.

Leonard: What do you want?
Sheldon: Hey, good buddy. So, uh, I was just talking to Amy, and she made me realize that this little dust-up between you and me is much ado about nothing.

Leonard: Is that so?
Sheldon: Yes. All is forgiven, so come back home. I’ll make you some soy hot chocolate, and then I’ll you tell you about our exciting new devil-may-care bathroom policy.

Leonard: Cut to the chase, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Okay. Amy’s decided she wants to move in with me, so I need you to come back home, you lovable scamp. That’s a lot of product.

Penny: It’s like the happiness won’t ever leave the apartment.
Sheldon: Leonard, please. You know Amy moving in marks a level of intimacy our relationship isn’t ready for.

Penny: Well, maybe he doesn’t know how to say it without hurting her feelings.
Sheldon: Feelings? What am I, a hippie at a love-in? No. The problem is, she laid out a series of logical arguments that I couldn’t refute.

Penny: That is the worst, isn’t it?
Sheldon: Yes.

Amy: Oh, there you are. When do I get a key to our apartment?
Sheldon: Um…

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: Hello, home wrecker.

Penny: What did I do?
Sheldon: You gave Leonard somewhere to go. Thanks to you, Amy’s out buying his and hers bath towels. Like I’d ever dry myself with something that has a possessive pronoun on it.

Penny: Okay. Listen, the truth is I don’t want him living with me.
Sheldon: Great. Kick him out. Break his heart. Everybody wins.

Penny: No, I don’t want to break his heart. I love him. This is just happening too fast.
Sheldon: You think this is fast? It’s just a matter of time before I see Amy’s leg stubble in my shower.

Penny: Yeah, and I’ve seen those legs. You might want to get some Drano.
Sheldon: Hold on. If you don’t want to live with Leonard, why don’t you just tell him?

Penny: Well, you know how he is. He’s sensitive and emotional.
Sheldon: That’s because he drinks too much soy milk.

Penny: Well, I don’t know what else we can do but tell them the truth.
Sheldon: I suppose there’s no choice but to face the crying, angry accusations and the high-pitched wails of despair.

Amy: Here you go. I picked up the Chinese food just the way Leonard used to.
Sheldon: Is it kung pao chicken?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Brown rice, not white rice?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Spicy mustard from the Korean deli?

Amy: Yes. I did good, right?
Sheldon: Yes. Amy, are you worried that us living together will take the mystery out of our relationship?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Yeah, why would you?

Amy: Oh, and, uh, check this out. I took the liberty of scripting a new outgoing voice mail message for both of us.
Sheldon: Hello. This is Sheldon.

Amy: And this is Amy.
Sheldon: We’re not home right now.

Amy: Beep.
Sheldon: You can’t live here.

Amy: What? Why? Is it the message? I only used urban slang to sound tough so people wouldn’t break in.
Sheldon: No. It’s not the message.

Amy: Well, what is it, then? I did everything just the way you like it.
Sheldon: You did.

Amy: Then what the hell, Sheldon? We have been going out for over two years, and I have been nothing but patient with you. I watch your dopey space movies. I signed your ridiculous contract. I even stopped wearing lip gloss ’cause you said it made my mouth look too slippery. I am the best girlfriend you’re ever gonna have. You give me one good reason why I can’t live here.
Sheldon: It’s Penny’s fault.

Amy: What?
Sheldon: She doesn’t want to live with Leonard, so he has to come live here again. She’s the snake in our garden. She’s the reason we can’t be happy.

Penny: Sheldon, what did you say?
Sheldon: I said the truth. You don’t want to live with Leonard, and you know it.

Penny: Oh, don’t get all huffy. You’re the one who decided to move in without even asking me if I was ready.
Sheldon: Yeah, I think we should talk about that.

Penny: And since you love the truth so much, why don’t you tell Amy you don’t want to live with her instead of blaming it on me?
Sheldon: I thought we were talking about the other thing.

Amy: You’re a coward.
Sheldon: Well, the evidence does support that.

Penny: Um…
Sheldon: Do you want to catch up on some Walking Dead?

Leonard: ‘Kay.
Sheldon: Have you seen the one where Lori dies?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Or maybe she doesn’t. Let’s find out.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: So, in conclusion, I believe the painful sensation felt after passing a meal of spicy chillies is proof that the rectum does possess the sense of taste.

Amy: I concur, but you changed the subject. What are we doing for Valentine’s Day?
Sheldon: Oh, you caught that, did you?

Scene: Sheldon’s office.
Sheldon: Ah, Alex, excellent. I have a research problem that I believe you can help with.

Alex: Oh, Dr. Cooper, thank you. I’ve been waiting for an opportunity to contribute to your scientific work.
Sheldon: Oh, no, no. That’s not going to happen, no. What I need you to do is find a Valentine’s gift for my girlfriend.

Alex: You realize I passed up an opportunity to work at Fermilab to take this job with you.
Sheldon: Well, I guess those chaps will have to have someone else buy their girlfriends presents. Now, here is, let’s see, this is, this is about two thousand dollars, um, I think she likes monkeys and the colour grey. Contribute to my work. Ah, kids say the darnedest things.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Okay. Amy will be here shortly, expecting the perfect Valentine’s gift, so, you’re up kid. Dazzle me. Go.

Alex: Okay, I think I have some really great choices. I went on Amy’s Facebook page and read up on her interests.
Sheldon: Now, see, I never would have thought to do that. Clearly, I made a good choice farming this out to you. But I am telling you, Amy hit the boyfriend jackpot. Anyway, my socks are on. Let’s knock them off.

Alex: Well, um, I know she loves playing the harp, so I found this beautiful music box that plays one of her favourite songs.
Sheldon: Now, Amy already has a real harp. And it can play any song. What are you trying to pull here?

Alex: No, I just thought it would be…
Sheldon: Next.

Alex: Okay. Um, I know she’s a fan of The Canterbury Tales.
Sheldon: Mmm.

Alex: So I found this cool map that illustrates the character’s journey through England. I thought we could put it in a really nice frame.
Sheldon: But she’s got Google Maps on her phone.

Alex: I don’t know how to respond to that.
Sheldon: Well, I hope it’s with a third good option, because these first two, buh.

Alex: Okay. Well, uh, luckily, I saved the best for last. Since Amy’s a neuroscientist, I did some research and found out that Santiago Ramon y Cajal, the father of modern neuroscience, did lots of hand drawings of brain cells. And I managed to find this signed print.
Sheldon: Wow. Oh, this is truly remarkable.

Alex: Thank you.
Sheldon: I think I’ll keep it for myself.

Alex: What about your girlfriend?
Sheldon: It’s too late. I call dibs.

Amy: Hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Amy: Happy Valentine’s Day.
Sheldon: Okay. Shall we go to dinner?

Amy: Hang on. As you know, I had planned a traditional evening of romance and gifts.
Sheldon: Yes, and as you know, I planned to pretend to enjoy it. I’ve been working on this facial expression all day.

Amy: And I appreciate your effort, but upon contemplation, I decided I was being selfish. So, I cancelled our dinner reservations and came up with an even better way to celebrate Valentine’s Day.
Sheldon: What is that?

Amy: By doing none of it. No dinner, no romance, no gifts. We stay here, order a pizza and watch one of your beloved Star War Trek things.
Sheldon: Really?

Amy: Well, that’s what you’d love, isn’t it?
Sheldon: More than anything.

Amy: Well, then, that’s what we’re going to do.
Sheldon: Well, I don’t know what to say. This is the most thoughtful gift that anyone’s ever given me. And that’s including an amazing gift that I gave myself earlier today.

Amy: I’m your girlfriend. That’s my job. And I know gift-giving puts a lot of pressure on you, so whatever you got me, you can return.
Sheldon: No. No, after everything you didn’t do for me tonight, I want you to have it.

Amy: What’s this?
Sheldon: Read it.

Amy: Sheldon Cooper, Caltech University employee information?
Sheldon: At the bottom.

Amy: In case of emergency, please contact… Amy Farrah Fowler. And there’s my phone number. This is the most beautiful gift you could’ve ever given me.
Sheldon: Well, I thought, if I have a stroke or a kidney stone, who would I want to share that with?

Amy: And you picked me.
Sheldon: It’s like you said, you’re my girlfriend.

Amy: Oh, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yeah. Okay. Stop ruining Valentine’s Day and order my pizza.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello, I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper. Welcome to Sheldon Cooper Presents Fun with Flags. My apologies that this episode is coming late. I did shoot one last week, in honour of Black History Month, but I was informed by my roommate that my spot-on portrayal of George Washington Carver could be considered wildly racist. My heart goes out to the members of the African-American community, who, like me, have been kept down by The Man. Now, Fun with Flags is not just for the flag aficionado, it’s also for the flag novice, so, to help me with that, please welcome my friend, neighbour, and flag virgin, yeah, not a real virgin. She’s had coitus many times. Sometimes within earshot of this flag enthusiast. Once while he was trying to watch The Incredibles. Penny.

Penny: Hello.
Sheldon: So, Penny, I understand you would like to learn more about flags.

Penny: Yeah, I can’t tell you how many times I’ve been at a party where everyone’s talking about flags and I just couldn’t join in.
Sheldon: Yeah. Well, you came to the right place.

Penny: Uh, I’m sorry, can we just pause for a minute?
Sheldon: What’s wrong?

Penny: I just think it might look more natural if you talked to me instead of the camera, you know, like, like a real conversation. It’s something we work on in my acting class.
Sheldon: Interesting. A few people in the comments section have said that my delivery is robotic. Perhaps that isn’t the compliment it sounds like.

Penny: Yeah, let’s try it again, and maybe, this time, you could work on your body language a bit. You know, when you’re all hunched like that, you’re shutting the audience out, but when you’re relaxed and open, you’re inviting them in.
Sheldon: Right. And which one do I want?

Penny: Let’s try open.
Sheldon: If our friend, the flag, has taught me anything, it’s to go where the wind takes you. As long as you remain firmly attached to a rigid pole. And, action. So, Penny, what sort of flag questions keep you awake at night?

Penny: Um, well, I’m from Nebraska. So what can you tell me about the state flag?
Sheldon: Gosh, Penny, what’d you have for breakfast? A big glass of good question juice? The Nebraska state flag is simply the state seal on a field of blue. Spread your legs, invite them in.

Amy (on webcam): Hello, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello. How’s the final stage of your nicotine addiction study going?

Amy: Fine. Just hold on. Mommy’s on the phone! Sorry. We’ve cut the monkeys down to one cigarette a day, so things are a little intense. Makes me miss my marijuana-abusing flatworms. Those guys were mellow.
Sheldon: Good news. Uh, the latest episode of Fun with Flags is online.

Amy: Oh, that’s right. How’d it go with Penny?
Sheldon: Much better than I expected. She even gave me some helpful tips about acting and body language. Watch. Welcome to my world. Not welcome to my world. Welcome. Not welcome.

Amy: Subtle, but powerful.
Sheldon: I know. I’m still learning to control it.

Amy: Did you tell Penny how helpful she was?
Sheldon: Why would I do that?

Amy: Because she’s your friend, and she did a nice job. I’m sure she’d like to hear it.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: Oh, hi. What’s up?
Sheldon: Um…

Penny: You need me to shut the door so you can do your knocking thing?
Sheldon: No. I didn’t start yet, it’s fine.

Penny: Okay. So, what do you need?
Sheldon: Well, I was thinking about you helping me out last night (knock, knock, knock) Penny. And I just wanted to tell you (knock, knock, knock) Penny, that the answer to the question, who did a great job? is you, (knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Penny: Really?
Sheldon: Yes, you were very natural in front of the camera, and I found your suggestions extremely helpful.

Penny: Aw, sweetie, you just made my day.
Sheldon: Okay.

Penny: Hey, my acting class is putting on a play Friday night. I could put you and Amy on the guest list.
Sheldon: Oh, that sounds terrible. Why would I want to do that?

Amy (on webcam): That’s right. They’re no good without the lighter.
Sheldon: Well, so much for your advice on complimenting Penny.

Amy: Why? What happened?
Sheldon: She tried to rope us into going to her acting class to see a play. Don’t worry. Luckily, I had the good sense to drown that kitten in the river.

Amy: Sheldon, that’s very rude. She helped you with your show. The right thing to do is reciprocate by going to see her play.
Sheldon: Oh, so many crazy rules.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. Oh yeah, much better.

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Amy pointed out to me that since you did something nice for me, I’m obligated to do something nice for you. So, yes, I’ll go to your dopey play.

Penny: Hey, I don’t want you to go any more.
Sheldon: Why not?

Penny: You should go ’cause you want to go, not because you have to.
Sheldon: Oh, Dear Lord, more rules? Where does it stop? Can I want to go because I have to want to go?

Penny: Okay. Do whatever you want.
Sheldon: Yeah, but now, wait. Do whatever I want? Or whatever I have to want?

Penny: Oh, for God’s sake, just come to the play.
Sheldon: All right. I don’t want to, but at least that makes sense.

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: You know, I haven’t seen Raj in several days. Is he no longer a part of our social group? And if so, should we be interviewing for a replacement? Perhaps, this time, we go Latin.

Howard: He’s just decided he’s never leaving his apartment again.
Sheldon: Oh, brilliant. I’ve been itching to pull that trigger.

Howard: He’s upset because he can’t get anywhere with women.
Sheldon: Would it help if I gave him some pointers? I’m just funnin’ ya.

Leonard: I’m sorry. That I asked.
Sheldon: All right, let’s get this stupid play over with.

Leonard: Uh, hang on. Empty your pockets.
Sheldon: Why?

Leonard: You know why. The Nintendo DS. And the PSP. Now the Gameboy.
Sheldon: Aw, for Pete’s sake. Can we go now?

Amy: Just so you know, this is not a stupid play. A Streetcar Named Desire is an American classic.
Sheldon: It’s about streetcars? Oh, great. I won’t need this. (Pulls out an etch-a-sketch.)

Leonard: She’s pretty good, huh?
Sheldon: She is. But when do they get to the part about streetcars?

Penny (as Blanche): …when I was a very young girl. When I was 16 years old, I made the discovery, love. All at once, and much, much too completely. It was like you suddenly turned a blinding light on something that had always been half a shadow. That’s how it struck the world for me. But I was unlucky. Deluded.
Sheldon: She’s remarkable.

Amy: Our Penny’s a star.
Sheldon: How can she remember all those lines, but as a waitress, she can’t remember no tomato on my hamburger?

Howard: I got whine.
Sheldon: I got the B word.

Howard: Come on, if I was any good at convincing women to do stuff, I wouldn’t have spent so much of my twenties in the shower.
Sheldon: If you ask me, this whole thing is a waste of our time.

Leonard: Helping women? Y
Sheldon: Helping anyone. People should take care of themselves.

Leonard: Oh, like yesterday, when you made me drive you to the dry cleaners, the pharmacy and the post office?
Sheldon: I’m not saying people can’t use tools. Even an otter picks up a rock when he wants a clam.

Leonard: You don’t think it’s worthwhile to try to get more women working in science.
Sheldon: I think that’s incredibly sexist of you. I believe in a gender-blind society like in Star Trek, where women and men of all races and creeds work side by side as equals.

Howard: Oh, I did spend a lot of my shower time with Lieutenant Uhura.
Sheldon: Howard’s disturbing recollections aside, I don’t appreciate being forced to do banal committee work.

Leonard: Yes, I know, you’re too smart for this.
Sheldon: Exactly. It’s like asking the Human Torch to heat up your frozen burrito.

Leonard: Got it. All right, I’m thinking one way to counter bias in the peer-review process, is for papers to be submitted under gender-neutral names. Like S. Smith instead of Samantha Smith.
Sheldon: I suppose there is a history of professional women using their initials so as not to be pre-judged. Harry Potter’s J.K. Rowling, uh, Star Trek’s D.C. Fontana.

Leonard: Guys, please don’t make this a school project where I’m the smart kid doing all the work while the slackers sit back and watch.
Sheldon: We’re not. This time you’re the smart kid doing all the work while the even smarter kids sit back and watch.

Howard: So, you think I’m one of the smarter kids?
Sheldon: No, you’re a tool I was using to make my point.

Leonard: Guys, our topic is encouraging women in science, can you at least play a less sexist game
Sheldon: How is it sexist? My character wields a battle axe as well as any man.

Howard: Not to mention she has mammary glands that could nurse a family of 30. And have enough milk left over to open a Baskin Robbins.
Sheldon: Mother, warrior-princess, franchise owner, I hear glass ceilings shattering all over town.

Leonard: Sheldon, you’re always saying how much smarter you are than me. Spend five seconds and come up with one idea on how to get more women into science.
Sheldon: All your ideas address the issue at a university level. By then it’s too late. You need to design an outreach program that targets girls at the middle school level and sets them on an academic track towards the hard sciences.

Leonard: That’s actually good. Why didn’t I think of that?
Sheldon: Some people are otters, some people are rocks.

Leonard: That’s great, try to set up something for the three of us to go over there.
Sheldon: Oh, hold on. While I’m comfortable speaking about science, I’m not sure I know how to spark the interest of schoolchildren. Better Google it.

Howard: What exactly are you looking up?
Sheldon: How do I get 12-year-old girls excited.

Howard: Well, they’re actually pretty excited. I’m their most famous alum. If you don’t count the serial killer who ate all those prostitutes.
Sheldon: This must feel pretty good for you, coming back to your alma mater as an astronaut.

Howard: Nothing.
Sheldon: Smart. We don’t want any problems.

Leonard: Okay, who’s ready for some science? Me, too. Okay, I am Dr. Leonard Hofstadter. I am here with my friends Dr. Cooper and real-life astronaut Howard Wolowitz, and we are going to show you girls how cool a job in science can be. How cool, you ask? Well, how about negative 273 degrees, ’cause that’s the temperature at which entropy reaches its minimum value. Did I just learn something new and have fun doing it? What? All right. So now let’s bring out theoretical physicist Dr. Sheldon Cooper.
Sheldon: Hello, female children. Allow me to inspire you with a story about a great female scientist. Polish-born, French-educated Madame Curie. Co-discoverer of radioactivity, she was a hero of science, until her hair fell out, her vomit and stool became filled with blood, and she was poisoned to death by her own discovery. With a little hard work, I see no reason why that can’t happen to any of you. Are we done? Can we go?

Howard: Quick, pull the fire alarm. Let’s get out of here.
Sheldon: Uh, hello again. Um, yeah, I don’t know if women in general have been actively discouraged from pursuing the sciences, but it’s clear you young women here, today, have been. While I was listening to my colleagues waste your time, it occurred to me that it might be much more meaningful to hear about women in science from actual women in science, and, uh, I happen to know two brilliant examples who have agreed to speak to you on the phone right now. Uh, Dr. Rostenkowski, Dr. Fowler, are you there?

Amy (voice): We’re here.
Sheldon: Thank you for taking time out of your very busy schedule to enlighten these young women.

Amy: Sheldon, all Snow White needs is one little kiss to wake up.
Sheldon: Heard you the first time.

Bernadette: Thanks. And, Sheldon, I know tonight’s the night you eat Thai food, so I went to the Asian market, got all the ingredients and made it from scratch.
Sheldon: Oh, you shouldn’t have.

Bernadette: Oh, it’s my pleasure.
Sheldon: No, you really shouldn’t have. I brought my own.

Bernadette: Sheldon, I’ve been cooking all day.
Sheldon: Well, now don’t you feel silly.

Raj: Oh, well, I’m sure they wouldn’t have tasted nearly as good if I hadn’t tried your food first.
Sheldon: Howard, did you want your clothes arranged seasonally or by colour?

Howard: Colour’s fine.
Sheldon: Wrong, they’ll be arranged seasonally.

Amy: Oh, it’s okay, I’m used to it. The other day at Whole Foods, he spent an hour optimizing the cheese aisle.
Sheldon: Yeah, and some thanks I got. The assistant manager chased me out with an artisanal salami.

Leonard: Sheldon, come on. It’s getting late. Time to go.
Sheldon: Oh, five more minutes.

Leonard: That’s what you said five minutes ago. Amy and Penny are already in the car. Let’s move it.
Sheldon: How come I never get to do anything I want to do?

Howard: You know, if he really wants to stay and finish, I can give him a ride home.
Sheldon: Please, Leonard, he said it’s okay.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s, wait, I can go home without you? Bye.
Sheldon: Howard, I have a few questions. I found three bowling pins. Now, do you juggle these, or are you missing seven?

Howard: Juggle.
Sheldon: You health nuts kill me.

Bernadette: Oh, my God, it’s beautiful. Look, he found the juggling pins I hid.
Sheldon: Uh, just a couple more items. Howard, I found this letter from your dad in a box. Now, based on the content, it could either be filed…

Howard: Whoa, you opened this?
Sheldon: Well, I had to find out if it was personal correspondence or memorabilia. Now, as I was saying, based on the content…

Howard: If I wanted to know, I would’ve opened it years ago. The closet looks great. Let’s get out of here.
Sheldon: Wait, can I bring this box of extra shirt buttons to sort on the ride?

Howard: Do whatever you want.
Sheldon: Thanks. Oh. Great party.

Scene: The laundry room.
Sheldon: Bleuch. Like cleaning out the entire building’s belly button.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, hello. What can I do for you ladies?

Amy: You have something we want.
Sheldon: Oh, dear. My mother warned me this is what happens to pretty boys in the big city.

Penny: No, we just want information.
Sheldon: Oh. Oh, I’ve got that in spades. Ravage me.

Penny: We heard you read the letter from Howard’s father.
Sheldon: I did.

Penny: What did it say?
Sheldon: I can’t tell you that. I’m bound by closet organizer/organizee confidentiality.

Amy: Sheldon, that’s not a real thing.
Sheldon: Well, neither is the rule that you have to hold your girlfriend’s hand at the movies. You know. That doesn’t stop you from pawing at me like you’re a bear and I’m a trash can full of sweets.

Penny: Why do you even care? Just tell us what it says.
Sheldon: Control over the information contained in that letter belongs to Howard. By happenstance, I came to know it. That doesn’t give me the right to disseminate it freely.

Penny: Come on. Look, the letter was found in Bernadette’s closet. Doesn’t that count for something?
Sheldon: Are you pointing out that California is a community property state, and since Howard and Bernadette are married, the intellectual property contained in that letter is jointly owned by the two spouses?

Penny: Yeah, obviously.
Sheldon: Well played. Sometimes I don’t give you enough credit, Penny.

Leonard: Hey, where have you been?
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard. If I was prone to sarcasm, I’d say I was pulling off a major heist at the museum of laundry baskets.

Leonard: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. I meant, golly, Sheldon, you’ve been gone a long time.
Sheldon: Oh. Yeah, well, I was waylaid by Penny, Bernadette and Amy. They made me reveal confidential information about Howard’s father.

Leonard: What information?
Sheldon: I can’t tell you that. I am bound by closet organizer/organizee confidentiality.

Raj: Well, come on, we won’t tell anyone.
Sheldon: Sorry, badgering me won’t work. What you should have said is, It’s pointless to keep this a secret because Penny will tell us.

Leonard: Fine, then that.
Sheldon: All right, I’ll tell you. My goodness, everyone’s on their game today.

Penny: Aw.
Sheldon: My shirt is itchy and I wish I were dead.

Amy: Absolutely.
Sheldon: If I say yes, can we turn off that Latin orgy music?

Howard: So everybody knows what’s in that letter except for me?
Sheldon: Yes, it’s six against one. Stand down, sir.

Amy: Use me as a human shield!
Sheldon: I panicked. He looked taller than usual.

Howard: Oh, yeah, what’s that?
Sheldon: It’s simple, really. It occurred to me that knowing and not knowing can be achieved by creating a macroscopic example of quantum superposition. The, the principle that a physical system exists partially in all its possible states at once.

Penny: We were all thinking it, really. It was kind of the elephant in the room, so…
Sheldon: Anyway, um, I realized that if we each present you with an account of what your father wrote to you, only one of which is true, and then we don’t tell you which one it is, you will forever be in a state of epistemic ambivalence.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: It was a map leading to the lost treasure of famous pirate One-Eyed Willy.

Amy: Told you.
Sheldon: Don’t.

Howard: Really?
Sheldon: Or that’s complete poppycock which Amy made up. It still could be the map.

Penny: It was a letter explaining that your dad wasn’t who he said he was. Eventually, his other life caught up to him, and the only way to keep you and your mom safe was to leave.
Sheldon: I would like to change mine. The pirate’s name was Peg-Leg Antoine. Now it’s completely different from Goonies.

Amy: No, it’s not.
Sheldon: Don’t.

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: You know, surprisingly, uh, the letter from your father wasn’t the most interesting thing I read in the closet. Bernadette’s diary has some saucy passages.

Bernadette: Sheldon, don’t you dare.
Sheldon: There’s nothing to worry about. Your secret’s safe with me.

Bernadette: That’s more like it.
Sheldon: Although copyright law would allow me to quote snippets in the context of a review.

Amy: If you’d let me pierce your brain with a hot needle in the right place, you’d be happy all the time.
Sheldon: Uh, Penny, I, I have a couple of questions about your closet. Is there any reason you’re keeping this dead goldfish?

Penny: Damn, I forgot to feed him. And that I had him.
Sheldon: Well, now, did you also have a dog? Because I found what appears to be a battery-operated chew toy.

Raj: Only if you’re this jellyfish which periodically reverts to a mass of undifferentiated protoplasm.
Sheldon: If I could keep my Gmail account, I’d be okay with that.

Barry: In wieu of fwowers, the department chair is asking that evewyone donate a bottle of Febweze.
Sheldon: If we’re going to change the topic from jellyfish, I’d be okay with brine shrimp or the history of the unicycle.

Barry: And turned into a puddew of goo. Now, we can either sit awound and cwy over spilt pwofessor, or we can wejoice in the knowwedge that a tenured position has just opened up. I choose to do the watter.
Sheldon: Excuse me, the whole tenure system is ridiculous. A guaranteed job for life only encourages the faculty to become complacent. If we really want science to advance, people should have chips implanted in their skulls that explode when they say something stupid.

Raj: Well, I believe people do their best work when they feel safe and secure.
Sheldon: Pchew!

Raj: Yeah, me neither. It should be about the work. And if I can’t get tenure, I’d like to see you or Sheldon get it.
Sheldon: Raj, don’t dangle false hope in front of Leonard like that.

Leonard: Excuse me, but I think I’m just as qualified as you are.
Sheldon: Pchew! Pchew! Pchew! Pchew!

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: While I disagree with the premise of tenure, if they gave it to me, it wouldn’t diminish my output. You know, I’m like the sun. Can’t turn this off.

Amy: Are Rajesh and Leonard competing for it as well?
Sheldon: Mm-hmm.

Amy: Do they know they don’t stand a chance ’cause you’re so great?
Sheldon: Well put. You know, I must say I go back and forth on this boyfriend-girlfriend thing, but those moments when you worship me really keep you in the running.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: My primary concern with being granted tenure is living with an insanely jealous roommate after the fact. I might need to sleep with a gun under my pillow. Or a chainsaw.

Amy: Or you take advantage of your newfound economic stability and move out, buy a house, get married. start a family.
Sheldon: Or, the chainsaw.

Amy: You know, if you really want tenure, maybe you should cozy up to the people making the decision.
Sheldon: Sheldon Cooper does not do cozy.

Amy: You don’t say.
Sheldon: But I suppose it wouldn’t hurt to know who’s on the committee. Let’s see. Oh, Janine Davis. Oh, dear.

Amy: Is that a problem?
Sheldon: Well…

(Flashback to Series 6, Episode 12, The Egg Salad Equivalency)
Sheldon: Even you. You’re a slave.

(End of flashback)
Sheldon: I’m not sure, it could go either way.

Janine: God, they’re everywhere. Come in. Dr. Cooper, how can I help you?
Sheldon: Yes, hello. I’m fine. Um, I understand you may have a bad impression of me, so I bought you a gift.

Janine: Uh, Dr. Cooper, that’s not necessary.
Sheldon: It’s too late. Get ready to like me.

Janine: Roots?
Sheldon: The tragic history of slavery in America. Fun for the whole family.

Janine: Why would you think this is an appropriate gift?
Sheldon: Um… Well… You are black, right?

Janine: This meeting has come to an end.
Sheldon: Because you want to start watching it right now. Copy that. Let’s see. Up next on the tenure committee is Professor Wu. Well, get ready for the complete works of Jackie Chan.

Leonard: Probably not.
Sheldon: Barely knew him.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I won’t be able to make our date night this Thursday, so, bad news for you.

Amy: Well you better have a good excuse this time, because trimming Q-tips to fit your ears right is obvious nonsense.
Sheldon: First of all, when you say things like that, people think you’re crazy. Second, the reason I’m cancelling is because I have to attend a memorial service for Professor Tupperman.

Amy: It sounds like a long and tedious evening.
Sheldon: Eh, it will be. Honestly, if I must endure a long and tedious evening, I’d rather it be with you on date night. But I have no choice. The tenure committee’s going to be there.

Amy: Oh. Well, in that case, perhaps I should come along.
Sheldon: Well, now that I think about it, that would be most helpful.

Amy: Of course it would. I’m well-versed in academic politics, and as a respected scientist, I can only raise your stock as a candidate.
Sheldon: Actually, I meant you could drive me. But if it makes you happy, that other stuff, too.

Amy: Let’s go over our emotional responses one last time.
Sheldon: Okay.

Amy: Professor Tupperman is dead, and that makes us?
Sheldon: Sad.

Amy: The fact that there are so many people here tonight doesn’t make us cranky and claustrophobic. It makes us?
Sheldon: Glad.

Amy: Giving Mrs. Davis the box set of Roots was?
Sheldon: Bad. However…

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Fine. Bad.

Raj: Unbelievable. You have some nerve showing up here just to schmooze with the tenure committee.
Sheldon: You’re here.

Raj: Excuse me. I’m here to pay my respects to Professor Tupperware, or whatever his name is.
Sheldon: So am I. His passing makes me feel bad.

Penny: I’m here to support my man, just like you.
Sheldon: What are you going to do? Take people’s drink orders and get them wrong?

Leonard: Do it.
Sheldon: What? Did she do it yet?

Amy: She plans on flirting with members of the tenure committee to further Leonard’s cause.
Sheldon: Well, that’s a fine how-do-you-do. Don’t just stand there. Take your breasts out.

Raj: You two should be ashamed of yourselves. Using women to advance your cause with sexuality, and whatever Amy plans on doing.
Sheldon: Are you implying that my girlfriend has no sexuality to exploit?

Raj: Yes.
Sheldon: Okay, because that was not clear.

Amy: Sheldon!
Sheldon: What? That was ambiguous.

Raj: Well, now it’s biguous. What are you gonna do about it?
Sheldon: Um…

Howard: You could talk some smack about his mother.
Sheldon: Well, yes, of course, he wouldn’t like that at all. Last night, I was feeling in need of sexual release when I happened to come across your mother.

Leonard: Okay, okay. Guys, what are we doing here?
Sheldon: I don’t know what you’re doing, but I was about to insinuate that I had coitus with Raj’s mother for a dollar.

Leonard: How about it, Sheldon?
Sheldon: What do you think I should do?

Amy: Well, you’ll always be an academic success, but I seriously question whether you’ll make any more friends.
Sheldon: I don’t want any more, but let’s go.

Raj: Yeah, screw it. I’m going in.
Sheldon: Wait. Hold on. I believe screw it, I’m going in is what I said to your mother last night. Don’t worry, I didn’t really say that. I find the concept of coitus ridiculous and off-putting.

Scene: Janine’s office.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Mrs Davis? (Knock, knock, knock) Mrs Davis? (Knock, knock, knock) Mrs Davis? I know you’re in there. I saw your car in the parking lot.

Janine: What?
Sheldon: I just found out that you recommended myself, Dr. Hofstadter and Dr. Koothrappali to be on the short list for tenure.

Janine: Well, despite your quirks, the three of you are very accomplished in your respective fields.
Sheldon: I don’t know what you mean by quirks, but, um, I do want to express my gratitude.

Janine: You didn’t bring another gift, did you?
Sheldon: No, no. No, I learned my lesson. I understand that was inappropriate.

Janine: Good.
Sheldon: Anyway, thank you.

Janine: You’re welcome. (Sheldon attempts a jive handshake) I’m gonna pretend that didn’t happen.
Sheldon: Yeah, right on, sister.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Oh, dear. Penny, have you been recording shows on our DVR again?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Answer honestly. This is not a trial. That’ll come later.

Leonard: Yeah. Uh, maybe we were hacked. You know, the Chinese have been hacking everything lately.
Sheldon: Why would the Chinese make our DVR record Paul Blart: Mall Cop?

Leonard: I don’t know. It’s a fat guy on a Segway. That’s funny everywhere.
Sheldon: I’m deleting it.

Leonard: You know, if you’re trying to make space on the DVR, why don’t you just get rid of some of the stuff you’ve already watched? Like, um, Alphas.
Sheldon: No, that’s the season two finale. That was quite the cliffhanger. I’m going to re-watch it before season three starts.

Leonard: There is no season three. They cancelled that show.
Sheldon: Well, they can’t cancel it. It ended on a cliffhanger.

Penny: Uh, Sheldon, there are two dumplings left. Do you want them?
Sheldon: Dumplings? Don’t you understand what’s going on here?

Penny: As a rule, no.
Sheldon: That show ended with all the residents of New York either dead or unconscious. Oh, now I’ll never know what happened.

Penny: Well, why don’t you make up your own ending?
Sheldon: Oh, sure, what a wonderful idea. And after that, I’ll make up my own rules of oral hygiene. You know, instead of flossing, I’ll rub pudding on my gums. I’m going to get the number of the SyFy Channel and give them what for.

Leonard: Oh, please, don’t do that.
Sheldon: No. They can’t just cancel a show like Alphas. You know? They have to help the viewers let go. Firefly did a movie to wrap things up. Buffy the Vampire Slayer continued on as a comic book. Heroes gradually lowered the quality season by season till we were grateful it ended.

Amy: I’m sorry you’re upset. You know, Sheldon, sometimes people seek the comfort of physical contact in moments like this.
Sheldon: I am not flying back to Texas just so my mom can give me a hug.

Amy: Okay. Well, what I think is going on here is you have a pathological need for closure.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s nonsense. I mean, you tell me stories about your day all the time. I don’t care how they end.

Amy: You know, I might be able to help you with this. There’s a whole field of behavioural neuroscience that examines ways to retrain your neural pathways so stuff like this bothers you less.
Sheldon: Yeah, but I just told you, I don’t have a problem with closure.

Amy: You sure about that?
Sheldon: Oh, quite sure. (Amy starts a knocking sequence on the table. After staring at her a moment, Sheldon completes it.) That proves nothing.

Amy: I’ve come up with a series of exercises to help with your compulsive need for closure.
Sheldon: I take issue with the word compulsive.

Amy: All I’m saying is, we live in a world where closure isn’t always an op…
Sheldon: …tion. Okay. For the sake of argument, let’s say I have a problem. What would be your plan for addressing it?

Amy: I’m going to recondition your brain so that the need for completion isn’t so overwhelming.
Sheldon: By playing tic-tac-toe?

Amy: Yep. Your turn.
Sheldon: Oh, Amy. And you wonder why people think neuroscience is nothing but a goofy game for diaper babies. Tic-tac-toe can only end in win, lose or draw, none of which will deny me closure. Especially since I’m about to win. (She wipes the board clean.) B-But we didn’t finish.

Amy: Exactly. How does that make you feel?
Sheldon: The same way any normal person would. I feel like I want to peel off my own face and tear it in two and then again and again until I have a handful of Sheldon-face confetti.

Amy: And that’s exactly the feeling we want to address with this course of treatment.
Sheldon: Or you could pitch in, grab a nostril and help me get this face off.

Amy: Come on, you can do this.
Sheldon: You don’t know what it’s like to feel completely frustrated. To have a desire build up within you and be denied any opportunity for release.

2. (Sheldon is laying out an intricate pattern of dominoes) Amy: That’s quite an impressive layout, isn’t it?
Sheldon: Yes.

Amy: Let’s box it up.
Sheldon: Let’s box it up.

4. Amy: Okay, Sheldon, make a wish and blow out the candles. Oops, missed one. Now your wish can’t come true.
Sheldon: Lucky for you, ’cause I wished you were dead.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Amy, I must say, I was sceptical at first, but this has truly been a transformative evening.

Amy: I’m a little surprised to hear you feeling so positive.
Sheldon: Well, you’re an excellent neuroscientist, you’re a wonderful girlfriend, and…

Amy: And?
Sheldon: Doesn’t matter, does it?

Amy: I’m proud of you, Sheldon. (Exits.)
Sheldon: And a complete sucker.

Penny: Sheldon, you big weirdo, I want you to know that I love that you’re in my life.
Sheldon: I love you, too.

Scene: Later.
Sheldon: Hello. Uh, is this the Bruce Miller who wrote the season finale of Alphas? Oh, smashing. Yeah, you already sound nicer than the last Bruce Miller who suggested I have sexual relations with myself. Now, down to business. Um, your show ended on a cliffhanger. Could you please tell me how you planned to resolve it? Uh-huh. Mm-hmm. I see. Well, that all stinks. No wonder you got cancelled. Bye.

Penny: Got it.
Sheldon: Leonard, you’ll never guess who I just found online. Hey!

Penny: Eh, his giant head did most of the work.
Sheldon: Very mature. You’re lucky I’m out of silly string. As I was saying, Leonard, you’ll never guess who I just found online. Professor Proton.

Leonard: You’re kidding. He’s still alive?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Yes! Sorry, tell me about Professor Proton.
Sheldon: Professor Proton hosted my favourite science show when I was a child. I never missed an episode. He demonstrated scientific principles using everyday objects.

Penny: Aw, so cute when you use the word cool wrong. Like when kids say pasghetti.
Sheldon: Oh, dear lord, Leonard, look. He’s still available for parties and events. We should hire him.

Leonard: Hire him to do what?
Sheldon: Well, whatever we want. Hang out, do experiments, make him take 12 pictures with us so we can make a calendar.

Leonard: It would be pretty awesome to hang out with him. I just used awesome wrong, didn’t I?
Sheldon: Well, I’m e-mailing him right now.

Leonard: Do you remember his old theme song?
Sheldon: Of course I do.

Raj: Thank you.
Sheldon: It’s happening. Leonard, it’s happening. Professor Proton is coming to our house.

Howard: You mean the guy who used to host that lame kids show?
Sheldon: And you just got yourself uninvited. See? I told you I’d find a tactful way to do that.

Howard: How’d you get him to come to your house?
Sheldon: As Professor Proton always says, there is no problem you can’t solve if you use your noggin.

Leonard: And he wrote him a cheque.
Sheldon: Yeah, that, too. Big cheque.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: I’m getting worried.

Penny: Relax, Sheldon, he’s only a few minutes late.
Sheldon: Professor Proton was never late when he was on TV. You know, every day, four o’clock, he was there. Unless tornadoes were ripping apart East Texas, in which case we’d join him in progress. (Phone rings) It’s him. Hello. Well, I see. Yes. All right, we can come get you. Yeah, well, see you soon. Bye.

Leonard: Where is he?
Sheldon: The third floor landing. The poor old guy’s been walking up the stairs for half an hour. It’s really you.

Arthur: I agree.
Sheldon: Professor Proton, it’s an honour to meet you.

Arthur: Just, just call me Arthur.
Sheldon: Leonard, you hear that? Professor Proton said I should call him Arthur. That means we’re friends.

Arthur: No. A friend would’ve, would’ve told me about the elevator.
Sheldon: Look at me. I can get as close to you as I want without my mom saying it’s going to ruin my eyes.

Leonard: Actually, he’s a genius.
Sheldon: I am.

Arthur: Well, I hope I haven’t, uh, kept the kids waiting too long for, for the show.
Sheldon: Oh, no, there are no kids. No, the, the show’s for me. Come on. I’ll race ya, Arthur.

Arthur: You, you get bit a lot. Let me see if, if I have this straight. You, you two are, are physicists, and you, and you want me to do a children’s science show?
Sheldon: Yes. And if there’s time, take 12 pictures with us in seasonal clothing.

Arthur: You know, I’m a real scientist. I, I have a PhD from Cornell University.
Sheldon: Yeah, that’s great. Did you bring your puppet?

Arthur: No, no. I, I hate that puppet.
Sheldon: Oh, no. How could anybody hate Gino the Neutrino? It’s nice, huh? I got him for 20 bucks on eBay. Including the shipping!

Penny: I think I know.
Sheldon: It’s gonna get sucked in. It’s going to get sucked in.

Penny: Okay, I didn’t know.
Sheldon: Yes.

Arthur: I, I figured that out.
Sheldon: Potato clock. Do potato clock.

Arthur: No. Look, guys, keep your money. I, I think, uh, I, I think I’m done.
Sheldon: What, well what’s wrong? Is she upsetting you? Because I can make her go away.

Arthur: I don’t know. I think I’m just, I, I just, I just don’t want to be Professor Proton any more.
Sheldon: Well, how can you say that? Professor Proton’s the best.

Arthur: What, what has it ever gotten me? I mean, I’m, I’m an 83-year-old man who has potatoes in, in his suitcase. Other scientists think, think I’m a joke. And the, the puppeteer who did, who did Gino, well, he also did my wife.
Sheldon: Mr. Jeffries, I need to show you something. :14:11,446

Arthur: What do you two talk about?
Sheldon: I wrote a fan letter to you when I was a child in Texas, and you sent this autographed picture back to me. Do you remember that?

Arthur: I’ll, I’ll give you a hint. I have a bracelet with my own address on it.
Sheldon: Well, anyway, um, you may find this hard to believe, but I didn’t have any friends growing up.

Arthur: No, I, I get that.
Sheldon: But, um, I did have you. And every day at four o’clock, you’d come to my house on Channel 68, and we’d do science together. If it hadn’t been for you, well, who knows what would’ve become of me? You know? Instead of a world-class physicist, I could’ve wound up as a hobo. Or a surgeon.

Leonard: I bet there are important discoveries being made every day because you inspired millions of kids to pursue science. In a way, their discoveries are your discoveries.
Sheldon: Yeah, it’s true. A generation of young scientists are standing on your shoulders.

Leonard: You want one of us to go with you in the ambulance?
Sheldon: I’ll do it.

Paramedic: No, that’s not a rule. He can go.
Sheldon: Oh, yeah.

Arthur: Well, at, at this point, I’m just glad someone’s carrying me down the stairs.
Sheldon: Met my childhood hero, now I get to ride in an ambulance. Boy, if we can get him to do that calendar, this’ll be the best day ever.

Scene: A hospital room.
Sheldon: Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur. Happy kitty, sleepy kitty, purr, purr, purr.

Arthur: Thank you, Sheldon. That, that was very nice.
Sheldon: Want me to sing it again?

Arthur: No. The fourth, the fourth time was, was the charm.
Sheldon: There anything I can get for you? Some apple juice? Uh, some Jell-O?

Arthur: No. No, thank you. But I, I do, I do have a favour to, to ask.
Sheldon: Name it.

Arthur: Well, I’m, I’m booked to do a children’s party tomorrow, and, um, frankly I, you know, I, I don’t feel up to it.
Sheldon: Oh, you’re not. You look awful.

Arthur: Thank you. Anyway, uh, I mean, you know my act better than anybody. I was, I was hoping that maybe, you know, maybe you’d fill in for me.
Sheldon: Are you saying that you want me to be Professor Proton?

Arthur: Yeah.
Sheldon: Oh, my. What an honour. Oh, this is like being asked to ascend Mount Olympus and dine with the gods.

Arthur: Or a Korean family in Alhambra.
Sheldon: But they’ll know I’m not you. Should I call myself Professor Proton, Jr.?

Arthur: Sounds great.
Sheldon: So, in a way it’s like I’m your son.

Arthur: What, Whatever.
Sheldon: Father.

Leonard: What is it?
Sheldon: Back to the Future II was in the Back to the Future III case, and Back to the Future III was, get this, in the Back to the Future II case.

Leonard: So?
Sheldon: So, did you do that, or am I in the house with an intruder?

Leonard: Sheldon, I got to go inside. It’s getting rough out here.
Sheldon: You’re dodging the question, I knew it was you. What was that?

Leonard: What was what?
Sheldon: This isn’t a very good connection, but it sounded like someone just released a kraken.

Leonard: Okay, I’m hanging up now. You know there’s no such thing as a k… (Leonard is attacked and dragged into the sea by a huge tentacle. Sheldon wakes up in bed.)
Sheldon: No!

Scene: Penny’s apartment door.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. 

Penny: What’s the matter?
Sheldon: Um, well, I was worried that you might be missing Leonard. And that might be causing you to have bad dreams, like the kind you’d get if you watched Clash of the Titans right before you went to bed.

Penny: Sweetie, did you have a bad dream?
Sheldon: To be honest, I did.

Penny: Aw.
Sheldon: Back to the Future II was in the Back to the Future III case. Leonard did it.

Penny: Good night.
Sheldon: No, wait. Perhaps I should sleep here so you don’t miss Leonard as much, uh, ’cause you’re being kind of a baby about it.

Penny: You know what? That would make me feel better. Thank you.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. Good night.

Raj: Well, you should be, ’cause she was looking good.
Sheldon: Dear Lord, you’re an astronomer. Although you may have earthly woes, get your mind back on the stars. Gee, even the lowly dung beetle chooses to plot its course by using the Milky Way.

Raj: Is that true?
Sheldon: Everything I say is true. Now, of course, the dung beetle also enjoys eating faeces, living in faeces and making little balls out of faeces, so, you know, pick and choose which aspects of its lifestyle you want to embrace.

Raj: Thanks. Oh, Sheldon, since Amy’s out of town, would you like to join us?
Sheldon: I want you to be happy, too, but not enough to do anything about it.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Penny, did you ever wonder how Starfleet captains…

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Well, now that I’ve piqued your interest, welcome to the exciting world of 3D chess.

Penny: Why don’t you just admit you only want to play this game because you always play it with Leonard and you miss him?
Sheldon: You overestimate his significance in my life.

Penny: Mmm.
Sheldon: Do I miss how he makes a face on my toaster waffle with syrup? No. Do I miss the way he fixes the zipper on my jacket when it gets stuck? I don’t think so. Do I miss how we say good night to each other through the walls of our bedroom using Morse code? (Taps out No in morse code on the table)

Penny: Okay, I get it, I get it. You are an emotionless robot.
Sheldon: Well, I try.

Penny: All right, let’s just get this stupid game over with.
Sheldon: Great. I’ll go first.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: By the way, how are you with zippers?

Penny: Why?
Sheldon: Well, I really need to go to the bathroom, and this one’s gone all cattywampus.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Ooh. Bad move.

Penny: Really? Why?
Sheldon: My queen can now take your rook from below.

Penny: So that means I lose, right? It’s over?
Sheldon: If I make this move, but I won’t because we’re having too much fun.

Penny: Okay, let’s take a break. 
Sheldon: We’re all out of alcohol.

Penny: I wasn’t going to get alcohol. Gosh, I wonder what Leonard’s doing right now. I miss him so much.
Sheldon: Well, if you’d like, we could call him. I mean that you could call him. As I’ve explained, the absence of my friends does not cause me pain. As rock and roll bad boy Paul Simon once said, I am a rock, I am an i-i-i-island.

Penny: I’m calling him.
Sheldon: Oh, goodie, put him on speaker phone.

Leonard: Best time of my life. 
Sheldon: Isn’t it five thirty in the morning there?

Leonard: Uh-oh, hang on.
Sheldon: Are you in danger?

Penny: Leonard, Leonard? I cannot believe we were missing that jerk.
Sheldon: You were.

Penny: I can’t believe it. All this time I’ve been doing nothing but sit around and miss that guy. And you know what the worst part is?
Sheldon: That you’re having to process your emotional pain without vodka?

Penny: No. Yeah. But you know what the second-worst part is? He does not miss me at all.
Sheldon: Allow me to comfort you. At least you’ve got your health.

Penny: Really? That, that’s it? That’s comforting?
Sheldon: Um, uh, in a hundred years, you’ll both be dead and it won’t matter?

Penny: No. Come on, you’re supposed to say, of course he misses you, the only reason he’s partying is to cover up his pain.
Sheldon: Oh, no, I don’t think that’s true at all.

Penny: This is ridiculous. Why am I upset just because he’s off having a good time?
Sheldon: Well, perhaps you’re obsessively picturing him engaged in drunken coitus with another woman. Is that it? Did I get it right?

Penny: Okay, that, that’s great. You can stop trying to make me feel better now.
Sheldon: Actually, I can’t. Before Leonard left, he made me promise that I’d take care of you.

Penny: He did?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Oh, that’s really sweet.
Sheldon: Plus, if I do a good job, he said he’d bring me back a sailor’s cap.

Penny: Well, now I miss him even more.
Sheldon: Well, if it’s any consolation, I’m sure Leonard’s tormented every moment he’s away from your warm embrace and cherry lips.

Penny: Thanks.
Sheldon: Oh, seriously?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Here is a hot beverage to comfort you. It’s in a to-go cup. Make of that what you will.

Penny: Come on. It’s still early. Let’s do something.
Sheldon: Well, I have been toying around with an idea for 4D chess.

Penny: How about we just talk?
Sheldon: All right. In 4D chess…

Penny: No. Come on, let’s talk about our lives. Tell me something about you I don’t know.
Sheldon: I own nine pairs of pants.

Penny: Okay, that, that’s a good start, but I was thinking maybe something a little more personal.
Sheldon: I see. I own nine pairs of underpants.

Penny: How about I go first?
Sheldon: But I don’t want to know how many underpants you own. Although, based on the floor of your bedroom, I’d say it’s a thousand.

Penny: Okay, look, here’s something people do not know about me. When I first moved out to L.A., I did a topless scene in a low-budget horror movie about a killer gorilla. Ugh! After I did it, I felt so ashamed. Thankfully, that thing never came out.
Sheldon: I’ve seen that. Yeah. Serial Apeist. Howard found it online the day we met you.

Penny: Oh, God.
Sheldon: And it was literally the moment you walked out the door. But I see the type of personal revelations you’re going for. Okay, here’s one I thought I’d take to the grave.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: Hmm. A while back, YouTube changed its user interface from a star-based rating system to a thumbs-up rating system. I tell people I’m okay with it, but I’m really not.

Penny: That’s your big revelation?
Sheldon: Yes. Whew, I feel ten pounds lighter.

Penny: Okay, you know what? I give up. I’m going to bed.
Sheldon: Here’s something else you don’t know about me. You just hurt my feelings.

Penny: What did I do?
Sheldon: I opened up and shared something deeply upsetting to me, and you treated it as if it were nothing.

Penny: I, I didn’t think it was a big deal.
Sheldon: It is to me; that’s the point.

Penny: Sheldon, you are right. I’m really sorry. I should’ve known better.
Sheldon: Your apology is accepted.

Penny: Thank you. How about a hug?
Sheldon: How about a hearty handshake?

Penny: Come on.
Sheldon: Now I know how you felt getting mauled by that sex-crazed gorilla.

Scene: The stairwell
Sheldon: And here’s another interesting weather fact.

Penny: Another? Great.
Sheldon: Changes in jet streams can affect the speed at which the Earth rotates on its axis, so bad weather can actually make the day longer.

Penny: Well, there must be a hell of a storm somewhere.
Sheldon: Joke if you must, but you’re going to miss these moments. With Leonard home in a few days, this was your last time driving me to the grocery store.

Penny: You know, I will miss this.
Sheldon: I’ll tell you what, if my apples are mealy, we’ll hit the produce section for one last crazy blowout. Heck, you can even push the cart. Please don’t take my looking forward to Leonard’s return as criticism of the job you’ve been doing in his absence.

Penny: I won’t.
Sheldon: That criticism will come later in your report card.

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: Uh, Stuart, I was wondering if you could help me find something.

Stuart: Happy to, unless it’s hope or a reason to live.
Sheldon: Oh, you make me laugh, sad clown. Anyhoo, Leonard will be back in a couple days and I need a welcome home gift for him. As he’s been at sea, perhaps something with a nautical theme might be appropriate.

Stuart: Okay, well, I don’t know how much you want to spend, but I do have this pretty cool Aquaman statue.
Sheldon: Aquaman? Oh, this isn’t a gag gift, Stuart.

Stuart: Yeah, just as well. It’s a pretty rare piece. I’d rather just sell it to a real collector.
Sheldon: I’m a real collector. How rare is it?

Stuart: Oh, I shouldn’t even have mentioned it. How about a Batman squirt gun?
Sheldon: Don’t try and trick me into buying something I don’t want. Now let’s talk Aquaman. 

Raj: Well, we’ve all seen your mom. That Butterball turkey was bound to come home to roost.
Sheldon: Twelve hundred dollars. That’s my final offer.

Stuart: All right, Sheldon, you win. I’m sure Leonard is gonna love this.
Sheldon: Oh, right, a present for Leonard. You better throw in that squirt gun.

Stuart: Ooh, yeah, I don’t know. This squirt gun, it’s, uh, it’s pretty rare.
Sheldon: Oh.

Penny: Oh. Okay. Well, here’s, um, thirty something cents and a promise I won’t call your boss and tell him you reek of marijuana.
Sheldon: Oh, Penny, I see you’ve ordered pizza. I have Chinese food. 

Penny: That’s nice.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s a rather earthy cologne. My uncle used to wear that. Perhaps we can enjoy one last meal together before Leonard returns.

Penny: Yeah, thanks, but I kind of feel like eating alone tonight, so…
Sheldon: Are you sure? With your Italian pizza and my Chinese noodles, we could play Marco Polo. I mean, of course, a re-enactment of a meal in the life of Marco Polo the Venetian explorer, not Marco Polo the terrifying water sport.

Penny: Uh, yeah, it sounds fun, but no thanks. (Toilet flushes) Have a good night!
Sheldon: What, now, do you have company?

Penny: No. No, no, no. You know what? The toilet’s been doing that. I called the building manager, so…
Sheldon: Oh, I can take a look at it.

Penny: Well…
Sheldon: I’m quite familiar with plumbing. Not to brag, but I spent most of fifth grade with my head in a toilet.

Penny: Yeah, no, no, no. You know what, Sheldon, it’s okay. You don’t have to go into the bathroom.
Sheldon: That’s curious. If there’s no one here, why are there two glasses of wine on the table?

Penny: Oh. Well, you know, I, I’ve got two hands and a bit of a drinking problem.
Sheldon: Of course. Ask a silly question. 

Penny: Oh. 
Sheldon: That’s odd.

Penny: Um, what?
Sheldon: There are takeout containers in the trash can.

Penny: So? That’s my dinner from last night.
Sheldon: What’s odd is they’re in the trash can.

Penny: Okay. Look, honey, I promise there’s no one’s here. I‘ve had a long day. I just want to have a quiet dinner by myself.
Sheldon: Oh, very well. I’m no stranger to enjoying the pleasures of solitude. Oh!

Penny: What?
Sheldon: Have you gotten Leonard a welcome-home gift yet?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Oh, great. Do you want to go halfsies on a two hundred dollar squirt gun?

Amy: Oh, and here’s a fun thing. I worked it out so that there are two different words for spoon, planko and janko. Planko is a spoon with food, janko is a spoon without food. Janko is spelled with a silent ptang. Sheldon, you’re not even listening to the rules of my made-up language.
Sheldon: Yes, I am.

Amy: Then what does tweepadock mean?
Sheldon: Uh, elephant?

Amy: Lucky guess.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I’m just distracted by something that happened over at Penny’s.

Amy: What happened?
Sheldon: I fear Penny is being unfaithful to Leonard.

Amy: What?
Sheldon: She claimed to be alone when there was obviously someone else in her apartment. I have no choice but to assume the worst, given Leonard’s lengthy sea voyage and her famously ravenous nether regions.

Amy: I don’t think Penny would cheat on Leonard.
Sheldon: Oh, really? She and I once had a staring contest. She clapped really loud and made me blink. It’s a small leap from there to sexual infidelity.

Amy: You’re being ridiculous.
Sheldon: Amy, there were Chinese food containers in the trash can.

Amy: Do you hear anything?
Sheldon: I hear a woman’s voice.

Amy: Is it Penny?
Sheldon: No, it’s you. All right, I hear whispering and giggling. Now I think I hear kissing.

Amy: Yeah, like you know what kissing sounds like.
Sheldon: There’s kissing in Star Trek, smarty-pants.

Amy: Let me listen. Sounds like Leonard.
Sheldon: Please. Why would Leonard come home early and waste his time kissing Penny when he could be hanging out with his best buddy? Yeah, that’s it. I’m catching her in the act. (Unlocks door)

Amy: No, Sheldon, don’t.
Sheldon: Aha. 

Penny: What the hell?
Sheldon: Leonard?

Penny: Sheldon, you cannot just barge in here like that. 
Sheldon: Right. (Goes out.) (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. Are you going to answer the door or should I open it and say aha again?

Leonard: I’m sorry, Sheldon. I should’ve told you I was back. I just wanted to have a couple days alone with Penny.
Sheldon: Oh, no, I should apologize. Uh, I never realized to what extent our friendship was a burden to you.

Leonard: That is not fair. I complain about what a burden it is at least once a month.
Sheldon: Oh, no, no, let’s not sugarcoat this. You find me finicky, pedantic and annoying.

Leonard: I actually have used those exact words before. In that order.
Sheldon: Well, Leonard, I think it’s high time you and I address the tweepadock in the room.

Leonard: The what?
Sheldon: Amy?

Amy: Please leave me out of this.
Sheldon: Fine. Leonard, there’s no need for you to pretend to like me anymore.

Leonard: Come on, I said I was sorry.
Sheldon: No, no, you save your apologies for after you’ve had disappointing coitus with Penny.

Leonard: Come on, this is silly. Hey, um, I brought you back a little present from my trip, huh? It’s that sailor cap that you wanted. It’s neat, huh?
Sheldon: You honestly think you can buy back my friendship with a cheap souvenir?

Penny: Ooh, now we’re talking.
Sheldon: Excuse me. This changes nothing. Except the Halloween costume I’m wearing this year. Amy, you’re going to be Olive Oyl. Lay off the doughnuts.

Leonard: Good morning.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: So am I driving you to work or are you still mad at me?
Sheldon: I’d like a ride. Assuming you actually do take me to work.

Leonard: Where do you think I would take you?
Sheldon: Who knows? Uh, you said you’d be home yesterday, but you came home three days ago. You say you’re taking me to work, but for all I know, I’ll end up in a deserted amusement park. Or a cornfield maze. Or a back alley dog fight. You tell me.

Leonard: I’m going to work. You can come if you want.
Sheldon: Okay. By the way, you have something on your shirt.

Leonard: No, I don’t.
Sheldon: Hurts, doesn’t it? You know, I find myself wondering if anything you’ve ever told me is true.

Leonard: I didn’t make it back. The ship sank, I’m in hell.
Sheldon: You say you’re from New Jersey, but how can I believe you?

Leonard: Why would anyone claim to be from New Jersey if they weren’t?
Sheldon: All right, I’ll give you that one.

Leonard: Hey, I said I was sorry. What else do you want from me?
Sheldon: I want you to admit that what you did was wrong.

Leonard: Fine. What I did was wrong.
Sheldon: I wish I could believe you.

Leonard: You know what? I’m not driving you to work, because you’re incredibly annoying.
Sheldon: You say one thing and do the other, so then you are driving me and you find me a delight.

Leonard: Stop it.
Sheldon: Keep it up?

Leonard: Bye.
Sheldon: Hello. So I guess you’re really holding up the other four fingers?

Penny: I don’t know what succubus is, but it has suck in it, so that can’t be good.
Sheldon: Thought I heard you out here.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You don’t get a hey. You get a hmm.

Penny: Come on, don’t be like that. We had so much fun together the last couple of months.
Sheldon: You’re right. Which makes your betrayal all the more devastating.

Penny: Sheldon.
Sheldon: I let you buy feminine hygiene products with my supermarket club card. You have any idea the kind of coupons I’m going to get in the mail now?

Amy: Sheldon, your fight’s with Leonard. Penny’s got nothing to do…
Sheldon: Careful, Amy. The friend of my enemy’s girlfriend is my enemy. 

Amy: Really?
Sheldon: Yes. You’re either with me or against me.

Amy: You want to take the bus to work?
Sheldon: Maybe there’s a third option.

Howard: That’s so great. If you guys prove the existence of Unruh radiation… Hey, hey, hey, hey. My eyes are up here.
Sheldon: Howard, Raj. Judas.

Leonard: You know what? You’re a crazy person.
Sheldon: A crazy person with a long memory, and if all goes according to plan, a robot army.

Howard: Stop it.
Sheldon: Or a mutant army. It depends on how my Kickstarter goes.

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: I suppose so.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: And then Leonard took me to the barber and the dentist, and then to cap off the perfect day, the Los Angeles Bureau of Weights and Measures. 

Penny: I’m so glad you guys are friends again.
Sheldon: And I’m glad you and I are friends again, too.

Penny: Aw.
Sheldon: Which reminds me. This came in the mail, and I want you to have it.

Penny: Fifty cents off Vagisil.
Sheldon: Think of me when you apply it.

Raj: Uh, can I just say, I’ve missed all of us hanging out together.
Sheldon: Yeah.

Raj: No, you weren’t because it was a week ago and nobody came. So, if you want to solve the mystery of who stabbed Koothrappali in the back with the weapon of indifference, it was all of you.
Sheldon: I don’t think thatqualifies as a mystery, we all knew what we were doing.

Leonard: Great. 
Sheldon: Thank you.

Howard: Why?
Sheldon: Come on.

Howard: Oh, that’s cute. Like it’s a real college.
Sheldon: That’s amusing, I was going to say that about M.I.T., but it works for Princeton, too.

Various: I’m in, let’s do it.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Are we really doing this or are we tricking Koothrappali again like with the dinner party?

Leonard: What’s all this?
Sheldon: Oh, everything I could possibly need to win the scavenger hunt.

Leonard: You really think he’s gonna send us to a bowling alley?
Sheldon: Well, if he does, do you know how filthy those rental balls are? They might as well stand on the corner and give away free rectal exams.

Raj: Okay, everybody. Who’s ready for a scavenger hunt? (Pumping disco music) Somewhere in the city of Pasadena, I’ve hidden a golden coin. You will be faced with a total of ten puzzles. Each p… (cough) each, each puzzle will lead you to the location of the next, the last of which will lead you to the coin. The first team that finds it wins.
Sheldon: He is a born showman.

Leonard: It’s not funny.
Sheldon: No, Oh, it actually is if you get the joke. It’s based on the premise that Princeton isn’t a very good school. 

Leonard: Ha-ha.
Sheldon: Oh, see? Now he gets it.

Penny: No, no. Let’s mix things up. I choose Sheldon, and we’re gonna kick your ass!
Sheldon: Really? The only time I’m ever picked first for a team and I’m stuck with the liability?

Penny: All right, hurry up and close the door so they can’t hear us. Would you stop pouting? So, you picked my name. Get over it.
Sheldon: Yes, and do you know what the odds are I’d pick your name?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: It’s not hard, one in five. Now you know why I’m pouting.

Raj (over walkie-talkie): All right, teams. Get ready to open your first puzzle. Go. Do you see what I did? The first puzzle is a puzzle. Oh, my God, how adorable is that? I wish I had a friend like me.
Sheldon: What are you doing? You have to start with the edges.

Penny: Well, there’s no right way, Sheldon. I already found a few pieces that fit.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, take them apart and start with the edges. And stop wasting time.

Penny: Ooh, ooh, it’s the comic book store. All right, come on, that’s where we have to go.
Sheldon: But we haven’t finished the puzzle.

Penny: But, it, it doesn’t matter. We know the answer, come on.
Sheldon: You think you know the answer. But it could be a trick. What if when the puzzle’s complete, there’s a sign in the window that says go to the train store?

Penny: Okay, it’s not gonna say that.
Sheldon: Well, I hope you’re wrong. I really want to go to the train store.

Penny: It’s the comic book store, it’s the comic book store, it’s the comic book store.
Sheldon: It’s the comic book store.

Penny: Ugh, we’re the last ones here, hurry up.
Sheldon: It is a marathon, not a sprint.

Penny: People run in a marathon.
Sheldon: Not with a bowling ball on their back.

Penny: Riddle me this…
Sheldon: Got it.

Penny: Hey, Princeton, look at that, Team Community College Night School is in the lead.
Sheldon: I thought we were the Lightning Sharks.

Penny: Aha. Okay, let’s see. To continue on your quest, leave no stone unturned. Ooh.
Sheldon: The next clue must be hidden under one of these rocks.

Penny: Oh. Okay. Sheldon, I, I’ve got to ask, how did you figure out that it was the geology lab?
Sheldon: Oh, simple, the ‘arrah, ‘arrah in the riddle mean Jan Arrah, a member of the Legion of Superheroes, known as Element Lad. And then the word He, it wasn’t the masculine pronoun, but rather H e, the abbreviation for helium. See where I’m going with this?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Nice try. Now, Element Lad’s ability is the power to transmute chemical elements. Helium has an atomic number of two. If you multiply that by the atomic number of N, nitrogen, you get 14, which is the atomic number of? I’m just funnin’ you, silicon. And that is the most common element in the Earth’s surface. So that narrowed it down to the geology lab or the chemistry lab.

Penny: Wow. I can drink a beer underwater.
Sheldon: And I’m sure your parents are proud. Now, finally, the line in this room the thing you’ll see was an obvious reference to Fantastic Four member The Thing, who’s made entirely of…

Penny: Shut up. I solved it.
Sheldon: Those are map coordinates. Got ’em. Let’s go.

Penny: Well, wait. Don’t you want to know how I figured it out?
Sheldon: No one likes a know-it-all, Penny.

Scene: Penny’s car.
Sheldon: Okay, another 30 feet.

Penny: Okay. Oh, it’s a bowling alley.
Sheldon: Yes. Yes. My brain is better than everybody’s.

Scene: Penny’s car. 
Sheldon: To the planetarium.

Penny: Three bags, no one’s opened ’em. we’re the first ones here.
Sheldon: It’s dirty laundry. You’re up.

Penny: What? Why me?
Sheldon: Because you’ve been training for this your whole life. You live in a pile of dirty laundry.

Bernadette: Because you were about to quit like a big, Sheldon, cover your ears.
Sheldon: I’m not a child. I know the word ninny.

Leonard: Hey, I am every bit as much of a man as Penny. Now, let’s do this.
Sheldon: Wait, it’s not all pants, there’s one shirt.

Penny: Oh.
Sheldon: Hey, that’s my shirt.

Leonard: This one is, too.
Sheldon: No, no, that’s not mine. It has a big spot on it.

Penny: Sheldon’s spot. The coin is in your spot.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s clever.

Penny (off): Hurry.
Sheldon: Be there in a minute. I just have to pre-soak these.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: So what’d you think?

Amy: It was good.
Sheldon: That’s it? Good”

Amy: I enjoyed it. When you told me I was going to be losing my virginity, I didn’t think you meant showing me Raiders of the Lost Ark for the first time.
Sheldon: My apologies. I chose my words poorly. I should have said you were about to have your world rocked on my couch. Anyway, thank you for watching it. It’s one of my all-time favourites.

Amy: It was very entertaining despite the glaring story problem.
Sheldon: Story problem? You, oh, Amy, what a dewy-eyed moon-calf you are. Raiders of the Lost Ark is the love child of Steven Spielberg and George Lucas, two of the most gifted filmmakers of our generation. I’ve watched it 36 times, except for the snake scene and the face-melting scene, which I can only watch when it’s still light out, but, I defy you to find a story problem. Here’s my jaw, drop it.

Amy: All right. Indiana Jones plays no role in the outcome of the story. If he weren’t in the film, it would turn out exactly the same.
Sheldon: Oh, I see your confusion. You don’t understand. Indiana Jones was the one in the hat with the whip.

Leonard: Why are you reading Pride and Prejudice?
Sheldon: I’ll tell you why. Amy ruined Raiders of the Lost Ark for me, so now I’m trying to find something beloved to her and ruin that.

Raj: Wait, how can, how can anyone ruin Raiders? It’s perfect.
Sheldon: Yeah, except for the fact that Indiana Jones is completely irrelevant to the story. With or without him, the Nazis find the ark, open it and die.

Leonard: Whatcha doin’?
Sheldon: Oh, it turns out Amy’s beloved Pride and Prejudice is a flawless masterpiece. He’s got too much pride, she’s got too much prejudice, it just works.

Leonard: So you’re looking to ruin something for her in the funny pages?
Sheldon: Amy has a fondness for the comic strip Marmaduke.

Leonard: Mm-hmm. And?
Sheldon: And I think I’ve got it. Consider, a family possesses a dog that is so large and poorly disciplined, he causes nothing but problems. Why do they keep him?

Leonard: Maybe they fell in love with him as a puppy and didn’t know how big he was gonna be.
Sheldon: Of course. You know, why couldn’t she just like Ziggy? Yeah? That thing’s riddled with plot holes.

Leonard: Sorry, buddy.
Sheldon: Ooh, I think she’s a fan of Garfield as well. Oh, darn it, now so am I.

Leonard: I’ll see you later. I gotta go watch a stupid football game with Penny.
Sheldon: Wait, hang on. You’ve spent time with Amy. Can you think of anything she’s fond of that has a bunch of flaws she hasn’t noticed?

Amy (on webcam): Hello, Sheldon. Is everything okay?
Sheldon: Yes. Why?

Amy: Well, the last time you made an unscheduled video-chat, there was a curly fry in your regular fries and you thought someone might be trying to slip you a mickey.
Sheldon: April 13, a dark night, indeed.

Amy: So what can I do for you?
Sheldon: I’m calling to invite you to a spontaneous date night tomorrow evening.

Amy: Really?
Sheldon: Yes. You were kind enough to watch Raiders of the Lost Ark with me. So I’d like to return the favour by inviting you to watch an episode of your favourite childhood television series, Little House on the Prairie.

Amy: That sounds lovely. Why are you rubbing your hands together?
Sheldon: Um, I’m putting on lotion. Are you in or not?

Amy: Of course I’m in.
Sheldon: Excellent. Then I shall see you tomorrow. Good night, Dr. Fowler.

Amy: Good night, Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: Good night, indeed. What a rube. Why would I put on lotion when I have such soft hands?

Amy: I love Little House. It made me want to live on a farm so much I tried to milk my cat. That tangy bowl of Cheerios was not worth the stitches.
Sheldon: Well, you sit back, relax and enjoy a beloved childhood memory. You see that cabin there? I read they were illegally squatting on Indian land. Yeah. Personally, I think what we did to the Native Americans was wrong, but this is your favourite show, not mine. Oh, look at little Laura Ingalls, eating that peanut butter sandwich. Peanut butter? Huh? That’s strange, since peanut butter wasn’t introduced until the early 1900s. If I knew this show was about time travel, I would have watched it much sooner.

Amy: You’re trying to get back at me for what I said about Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Sheldon: That’s silly. Almost as silly as Dr. Baker having a telephone, since telephones only existed in large cities at that time. This is more like Little House on the Preposterous.

Amy: Sheldon, we’re in a relationship. When you get angry, just tell me. You don’t need to seek revenge.
Sheldon: Are you sure? Every time my dad stayed out all night, my mom would put hamster poop in his chewing tobacco.

Amy: Well, that’s not how we’re going to do it.
Sheldon: Fine. I’m mad at you. Not only did you ruin Raiders for me, you may have ruined the whole franchise. Except for the fourth one, which was bad before you got your mitts on it.

Amy: I shouldn’t have said it. I’m sorry.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: Do you feel better?
Sheldon: Yes. But not as good as I’m going to when I tell you that your precious Garfield has no reason to hate Mondays. He’s a cat. He doesn’t have a job.

Howard: Wait, wait, if it wasn’t for Indiana Jones, the ark would never have ended up at the warehouse. 
Sheldon: That’s true. He collected and delivered the ark to the proper authorities for filing.

Howard: Probably because we left the diagram of it in the restaurant, and none of us wanted to walk back.
Sheldon: I know the real reason you never made progress with that idea. You thought of it September 22nd, 2007. Two days later, Penny moved in, and so much blood rushed to your genitals, your brain became a ghost town.

Leonard: That’s not what happened.
Sheldon: I remember it distinctly because I had just composed my annual poem commemorating the anniversary of Dr. Seuss’s death.

Howard: No one wants to hear it.
Sheldon: Why, die. Why did he die? Old, told. I was told he was old.

Leonard: Penny is not the reason I didn’t pursue that idea.
Sheldon: Oh, really? Since meeting her, what have been your greatest accomplishments?

Leonard: I think someone owes me an apology.
Sheldon: Well, don’t feel bad. I think we’ve all been distracted since the girls entered our lives.

Howard: You admit Amy’s a distraction?
Sheldon: Oh, very much so. Listen to this. This is from two days ago. Hi. Hope you’re having a good day. Who has time for this constant sexting?

Howard: My cousin has a cabin out in the woods.
Sheldon: I’m not going to a cabin in the woods. Did you see the movie Cabin in the Woods?

Leonard: Then we’ll go to a hotel.
Sheldon: A hotel? Did you see The Shining?

Raj: We could go up to Big Bear and get a house on the lake.
Sheldon: Did you see The Lake House?

Raj: Nothing bad happens in The Lake House.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, no, not to them. To me. Time traveling mailbox. The only time that traveled was an hour and half of my life down the toilet.

Leonard: Fine. Then we’ll just stay here and do it.
Sheldon: Well, you didn’t suggest a beach house.

Leonard: You would go to a beach house?
Sheldon: Well, good Lord, no, have you seen Jaws?

Raj: For your information, Emily is working tonight.
Sheldon: Yeah, one would assume, on getting out of the pit.

Leonard: Okay, let’s focus. The girls are gone, we have 48 hours. There are no distractions. Let’s change the world.
Sheldon: Thinking caps on.

Howard: Oh. I never saw that.
Sheldon: Really?

Raj: Oh. It’s wonderful, and I swear I’m not saying that because Justin Timberlake is in it.
Sheldon: Yeah, I have it on Blu-ray. We should watch it.

Leonard: Guys, in 30 seconds, we went from let’s change the world to let’s watch TV.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Is that a no?

Leonard: I, I think I still have it.
Sheldon: I did not get a clear answer. I’m gonna set this down now.

Howard: Also mine.
Sheldon: Wait. I’m confused. Why would you need both a robot girlfriend and a robot prostitute?

Leonard: You know, let’s just come up with something new.
Sheldon: You know, a number of significant innovations have been inspired by science fiction. The, the geosynchronous satellite from Arthur C. Clarke. The Motorola flip phone, that came from Star Trek. And I’ve long suspected that the idea of an African-American president was stolen from the movie Deep Impact.

Leonard: How cool would that be if we could make one of those a reality?
Sheldon: If we could figure out the scientific basis for Marty’s hover board, that would have universal application.

Raj: Oh, I have an idea.
Sheldon: I think I have the same one.

Leoanard: This is Hot Tub Time Machine all over again. If future Biff goes back to 2015 right after he gives young Biff the almanac, he could get back to the 2015 with Marty and Doc in it. Because it wasn’t until his 21st birthday that 1955 Biff placed his first bet.
Sheldon: Wait. Whoa, whoa. Is placed right?

Leonard: What do you mean?
Sheldon: Is placed the right tense for something that would have happened in the future of a past that was affected by something from the future?

Leonard: Had will have placed?
Sheldon: That’s my boy.

Leonard: Okay, so, it wasn’t until his 21st birthday that Biff had will have placed his first bet and made his millions. That’s when he altered the timeline.
Sheldon: Yeah, but he had will haven’t placed it!

Howard: What?
Sheldon: Unlike Hot Tub Time Machine, this couldn’t be more simple. When Biff gets the almanac in 1955, the alternate future he creates isn’t the one in which Marty and Doc Brown ever use the time machine to travel to 2015. Therefore, in the new timeline, Marty and Doc never brought the time machine…

Leonard: Wait. Is brought right?
Sheldon: Marty and Doc never had have had brought?

Leonard: I don’t know. You did it to me.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m going with it. Marty and Doc never had have had brought the time machine to 2015. That means 2015 Biff could also not had have had brought the almanac to 1955 Biff. Therefore, the timeline in which 1955 Biff gets the almanac is also the timeline in which 1955 Biff never gets the almanac. And not just never gets. Never have, never hasn’t, never had have hasn’t.

Leonard: Guys.
Sheldon: Do you know that the word wiener comes from the German name of the Austrian capital Vienna, or Wien?

Leonard: Guys, what are we doing? We sent the girls away so we could focus.
Sheldon: I don’t think it worked.

Leonard: All right.
Sheldon: Oh, this is already better. There are far fewer distractions in here.

Howard: Or if we could figure out a way to supercool the materials, we could utilize quantum coupling.
Sheldon: Well, I wonder if anyone’s tried that.

Leonard: I’m sure Mrs. Florida’s walking funny. Can we get back to work?
Sheldon: Yeah, he’s right. Oh, here’s a thought. What if we use some form of operant conditioning techniques to keep us from getting off topic?

Howard: Like behavior modification?
Sheldon: Yeah, exactly. Did you know those techniques were used to actually teach pigeons to play ping-pong?

Howard: We could snap a rubber band on our wrists every time we get sidetracked.
Sheldon: Mmm, not bad. You know, in medieval times, idle chatter was punished with a device called the scold’s bridle. It’s an iron cage that’s locked around the head and pierces the tongue.

Leonard: If only we had one.
Sheldon: Oh, I’ll check Amazon.

Leonard: All right, now, one benefit of quantum coupling…
Sheldon: Wait, a question, who decides if someone’s gone off topic?

Leonard: I think it’ll be pretty clear. If not, we’ll take a vote. Oh, and also…
Sheldon: Ow. We didn’t vote!

Leonard: We didn’t have to, that was clearly a tangent. Now come on. Back to work. If we’re leaning towards quantum coupling… Aah! Why?
Sheldon: You said quantum coupling. That made me think of the show Quantum Leap. That’s a tangent and it’s your fault.

Leonard: Thank you. And now I owe you one.
Sheldon: Ow. That was your fault.

Leonard: Everyone stop. This was a stupid idea. Negative reinforcement isn’t working.
Sheldon: I think you mean positive punishment. Negative reinforcement is the removal of a positive stimulus. It’s a common mistake.

Howard: Negative reinforcement is really wrong?
Sheldon: Oh, it’s used incorrectly all the time. Even Bill Murray makes that mistake in the first scene of Ghostbusters.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Leonard’s right. We can’t just jump ahead. We have to watch the whole movie.

Leonard: It’s late. We’ve wasted hours. Can we please find it in ourselves to do any amount of work tonight?
Sheldon: But we didn’t see them bust one ghost.

Leonard: So you’re, you’re saying we should stand here in my lab on a Saturday night and watch the rest of Ghostbusters on a crappy laptop?
Sheldon: No.

Amy: It’s actually steamier than it looks. Sheldon’s looking up the phallic symbolism of root vegetables in Renaissance paintings.
Sheldon: Oh, no, I got bored with that. I’m just browsing cuticle scissors on Amazon.

Penny: How do you not tear off his clothes and take him right here on this table?
Sheldon: If you do that, I’ll scream.

Amy: Sheldon, I have some exciting news to tell you.
Sheldon: That makes two of us. My new cuticle scissors will be here in one to two business days. Come on, one.

Amy: I’ve been invited to consult on an experiment at your university for a few months. Isn’t that great? We could have lunch together. We could carpool. 
Sheldon: You know, riding with Leonard has gotten a little tedious lately. The only car game he ever wants to play is the Quiet Game. And he’s terrible at it, I always win.

Amy: So, you’re okay with this?
Sheldon: Well, why wouldn’t I be?

Amy: Well, this project would have us working in close proximity to one another. And there’s the vulgar adage that one should not defecate where one eats.
Sheldon: My father used to say that all the time. That and, um, who does one have to orally gratify to get a drink around here? But what does that have to do with you working at the university?

Amy: Sheldon, don’t defecate where you eat means don’t have a romantic relationship in the workplace.
Sheldon: Really?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Huh. Yeah, I always took it literally. That’s why I have never once moved my bowels in this or any restaurant. Hmm.

Amy: I’m relieved that you don’t have a problem with us working together.
Sheldon: Not as relieved as I’m about to be. It’s a brave new world, little lady.

Howard: Are you crazy? You don’t want your girlfriend at work with you. Hell Clam.
Sheldon: Why not? Hairy Fairy.

Leonard: No, no, I think it’ll be great. Maybe next time he gets conjunctivitis at work, she can hold his head and try to put the drops in his eyes. Giant baby.
Sheldon: That’s a Raging Ogre.

Howard: Yeah, I know, and it drove me into the arms of another woman. Bipolar Bear.
Sheldon: Well, I appreciate your concern, but I won’t be seeing any more of Amy than I already do. I assume we’ll deduct any extra time we spend together at work from our weekly quota.

Leonard: Please let me be there when you tell her that.
Sheldon: Why? So you can see the look on Amy’s face when she hears my top-notch idea?

Amy: I don’t mind. I’m hoping to put his love of repetition to good use someday.
Sheldon: Hi. Um, I’ve reconsidered. Uh, you can’t work where I work. Enjoy the rest of your evening.

Amy: Sheldon. I already signed the contract. I cashed a cheque. 
Sheldon: Mmm, you are not going to come out of this looking good.

Penny: Sheldon, I don’t understand. I thought you said you were fine with it.
Sheldon: Well, I was. But that was before Howard explained to me how awful it would be if he had to work with his significant other.

Bernadette: He said what?
Sheldon: Now, don’t be insulted. He just thinks too much of you would be mind-numbingly tedious. 

Bernadette: Excuse me, I need to have a chat with my husband.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, now, well, keep it short. From what I gather, brevity is your friend. So, are we good here?

Penny: Yeah, and you can’t tell her what she can and cannot do.
Sheldon: Last week, you told Leonard he couldn’t wear his Wookie jacket out in public.

Amy: Sheldon, you don’t have to worry about me bothering you. I’ll be in a different building. And we don’t even have to have lunch together.
Sheldon: Really?

Amy: Yes. Before all things, I’m a scientist. I’m just there to do my work and, with a little luck, scare the living crap out of some monkeys.
Sheldon: Hmm. You sure your mothlike personality won’t be drawn to this blazing fire that is myself?

Amy: More and more sure.
Sheldon: Well, then, you have my permission.

Amy: I didn’t ask for your permission.
Sheldon: Too late. No backsies.

Howard: No, no, listen to me. Sheldon misunderstood. What I meant was, if we worked together, there’d be too much of me for you, not the other way around.
Sheldon: Howard, if you’re going to lie to your wife, don’t start the sentence with Sheldon misunderstood. That’s a dead giveaway.

Howard: Okay, fine. I did say that, and I think it’s true. I think if we worked together and lived together, we’d get sick of each other.
Sheldon: Yeah, but to be fair, he only said the part about him getting sick of you.

Howard: Bernie…
Sheldon: If it makes you feel any better, Amy and I are fine. I mean, really good.

Howard: I mean, you know, Sheldon, none of this would’ve happened if I hadn’t tried to help you.
Sheldon: Uh, it also wouldn’t have happened if, in the early universe, hydrogen was a little more common or a little less common. This is fun. Your turn.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: That was kind of icy. You two okay?
Sheldon: Oh, we’re fine. As Howard advised, she’s merely respecting our professional boundaries.

Leonard: Smart. Take relationship advice from a man who spent last night braiding Raj’s hair.
Sheldon: Yeah, you make a good point. It would appear I was worried for nothing. Look at her, desperately wishing she was over here at the cool table. Don’t worry, little moth. The flame will come to you.

Amy: And this is Dr. Gunderson from Stockholm.
Sheldon: Ah, Sweden. Yeah, home of my favourite Muppet and, uh, second favourite meatball. Okay, the Nordic reputation for lack of humour is well-founded. Boy, is his name Gunderson or No-Funderson?

Amy: Where are we going with this, Dr. Cooper?
Sheldon: Oh, please, I’m your boyfriend. You call me Sheldon. That’s right, I am in a boy-girl relationship with this cute little lump of wool.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: It’s a physical relationship, too. Hand-holding, hugging, even on hot days. Ow. Okay, here’s a new one. Apparently now we kick each other in the shin under the table. How do you like it when I do it to you? Not so much, huh?

Amy: Test subject D7, aka Betsy, fear response study. Image number one, Frenchman on bicycle carrying baguettes. No visible reaction. Image number two, sousaphone. Still no reaction. Okay. Let’s kick things up a notch. Image number three, crocodile with a mouthful of monkeys. Okay, now we’re talking.
Sheldon: Dr. Fowler?

Amy: What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Well, I’m done with work, so… ugh!

Amy: Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Sorry, uh, better?
Sheldon: Oh, baguettes. Yes, I like baguettes. What exactly are you doing?

Amy: Determining baseline fear levels in capuchin monkeys by measuring their response to visual stimuli.
Sheldon: So, goofing off. As I was saying, I’m done with work and Leonard’s not. So good news, you get to take me home. Play your cards right, I’ll let you drive me past the lot where the buses park at night.

Amy: I can’t leave now, Sheldon. I’m very busy. Besides, why would I want to do you a favour after the way you treated me in the cafeteria? Image number four, boa constrictor. 
Sheldon: What on earth are you talking about? My behaviour in the cafeteria was delightful. Maybe your friend Gunderson needs to head over to IKEA and assemble a sense of humour.

Amy: You embarrassed me in front of my colleagues on my first day here. Image number five, kitten in a teacup.
Sheldon: Aw. Embarrassed you?

Amy: You know what? I don’t have time for this. Find another way home.
Sheldon: I’m starting to get the sense that you’re angry with me.

Amy: Really? What tipped you off?
Sheldon: Couple things, actually. Your tone of voice, your body language…

Amy: Get out.
Sheldon: Well, now, that.

Amy: Image number six, woman giving birth.
Sheldon: Bleugh!

Leonard: It’s nine o’clock, where you been?
Sheldon: Oh, I had to take the bus home. Fell asleep and missed my stop.

Penny: Oh, no.
Sheldon: Did you know that Los Angeles has a Little Sri Lanka?

Leonard: I did not.
Sheldon: Well, I do now. They’re a lovely people. Although terrifying when you wake up face-to-face with them. If you’re hungry, I brought home some mutton and coconut milk.

Penny: Why’d you get that? You hate lamb.
Sheldon: I was asking for directions. Apparently, there was a communication problem.

Leonard: I thought Amy was gonna drive you home.
Sheldon: Yeah, I thought so, too, but she’s acting very strangely. I was discussing it with a Sri Lankan fellow on the bus, and he hypothesized that a tiger may have recently run across her shadow. Although he may have just been trying to drum up business for his brother-in-law’s witch doctor practice.

Penny: Okay, Sheldon, what happened between you and Amy?
Sheldon: Well, can you believe she said I embarrassed her?

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: But you didn’t even hear the details.

Leonard: Sheldon, I’ve known you a long time, and I’m going to tell you this with all the love I can possibly muster. Amy’s right. You’re wrong.
Sheldon: But you don’t even know…

Leonard: Doesn’t matter.
Sheldon: But, now, but in my defence…

Leonard: Doesn’t matter.
Sheldon: You’re not listening to my side of it.

Penny: Okay, fine, Sheldon. What is your side?
Sheldon: Well…

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy.

Amy: Sheldon, what are you doing here so late?
Sheldon: I couldn’t sleep because I kept thinking about what happened earlier between us. Also, I had one heck of a bus nap. Oh, speaking of which, do you want some mutton and coconut milk?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Well, I cannot give this stuff away.

Amy: What do you want?
Sheldon: Amy, this isn’t easy to say. All relationships are difficult, but even more so when you’re in one with a person who struggles with everyday social interactions. And frankly, who can strike some people as being kind of a weirdo.

Amy: Sheldon, you’re not a weirdo.
Sheldon: I wasn’t speaking about me. I mean, honestly, there’s no telling what will set you off. You know, introducing myself as your boyfriend. Giving you the opportunity to drive me home. Breaking the ice with your colleagues using ethnic humour, the funniest kind of humour.

Amy: What’s your point?
Sheldon: My point is, we’re a couple, and I like you for who you are, quirks and all.

Amy: I like you, too.
Sheldon: Well, I should hope so. I don’t see anyone else banging on this door to put up with your nonsense. Not even a good-bye? You see, that’s the kind of thing that makes people think you’re weird. Poor kid. She just doesn’t see it.

Penny: What are you working on?
Sheldon: Can’t talk. In the zone.

Howard: Guys, listen up. 
Sheldon: Can’t listen, zone. Also don’t care.

Howard: Next week is the anniversary of my first date with Bernadette.
Sheldon: Really don’t care.

Howard: Sheldon?
Sheldon: When did we get to the Cheesecake Factory?

Leonard: Well, for starters, you’ve broken up with me so many times, which first date are we talking about?
Sheldon: Ooh, somebody call the burn ward. And back to the zone.

Penny: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Zone.

Leonard: Sheldon, I know you’re in the zone, but do you want some tea? All right, I can’t believe I’m gonna say this, but you haven’t spoken in hours and I’m starting to get worried. Please say something.
Sheldon: Leonard, prepare to be humbled and weep at the glory of my genius.

Leonard: Nope, it was better before.
Sheldon: Look at it. I feel like my mind just made a baby. And it’s beautiful. It’s not like human babies, which are loud and covered in goop.

Leonard: Holy crap, Sheldon, did you just figure out a method for synthesizing a new stable super-heavy element?
Sheldon: Did I? Well, that can’t be right. No one’s ever done that before. Except me, because I just did it. Sheldon and his brain, yeah. Sheldon and his brain, yeah. Sheldon and his brain, yeah. Sheldon and his brain, yeah. Sheldon and his brain…

Raj: Fine. I will melt her heart. And her face.
Sheldon: Gentlemen. Uh, no doubt you heard about my little breakthrough. Now, if your plan is to hoist me on your shoulders and carry me around the cafeteria, please refrain. I don’t care for heights, motion sickness or the thought of your necks touching my buttocks. 

Raj: Yeah, I read your paper online. That technique for creating a new heavy element is inspired.
Sheldon: Oh, well, thank you. Believe it or not, I just learned a Chinese research team at the Hubei Institute for Nuclear Physics ran a test on a cyclotron, and the results were extremely promising.

Leonard: Sheldon, that’s incredible.
Sheldon: Yeah, I know. They called it the greatest thing since the Communist party. Although I’m pretty sure that the Communist party made them say that. I like China. See, they know how to keep people in line.

Howard: So, what happens next?
Sheldon: Oh, more testing, more success, more fame. Yeah, but don’t worry, I will remain the same down-to-earth humble Joe I’ve always been.

Leonard: Good to know.
Sheldon: Now give me that cookie, I discovered an element.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Let’s see, what’s next? Okay, here. This is the Magic Marker I was using when I made the discovery.

Amy: I don’t think the Smithsonian’s gonna want your marker. 
Sheldon: And that’s why you’re not on a list for my tree fort. Ooh, guess who’s getting an article written about him in Physics Today? I’ll give you a hint. You measured the diameter of his suspicious mole yesterday.

Amy: Sheldon, I’m so proud of you.
Sheldon: Well, you should be. My discovery is spreading like wildfire. Unlike my mole, which is holding steady at the size of a navy bean.

Amy: What’s next?
Sheldon: This is the very copy of The Handbook of Chemistry and Physics in which I looked up the reaction rates of mendelevium and…

Amy: And what?
Sheldon: No. No, no, no, no.

Amy: What’s wrong?
Sheldon: I’ve made a horrible mistake.

Amy: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: This table, it’s in square centimetres. I read it as square metres. You know what that means?

Amy: That Americans can’t handle the metric system?
Sheldon: Amy, I was off by a factor of 10,000. 

Amy: But the Chinese team found the element.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, they shouldn’t have. My calculations were wrong. There must be some resonance between the elements I didn’t know about.

Amy: So you just got lucky?
Sheldon: Sheldon Cooper does not get lucky.

Amy: You and me both, brother. It doesn’t matter. The element was found because of you, and that’s groundbreaking.
Sheldon: What matters is the greatest scientific achievement of my life is based on a blunder. I’m not a genius, I’m a fraud.

Amy: You know, Sheldon, in neuroscience, we’re forever finding something in one part of the brain that we thought was someplace else.
Sheldon: Oh, great. Now I’m worse than a fraud. I’m practically a biologist.

Leonard:: You got to stop beating yourself up over this. I mean, you made a mistake, but it was a happy mistake.
Sheldon: There’s nothing happy about it. I’m being given credit that I don’t deserve. 

Leonard: Oh, people get things they don’t deserve all the time. Look at me with you. 
Sheldon: No, Leonard, this is going to haunt me for the rest of my life. Every science classroom, every periodic table, every textbook, this mistake will be staring back at me. Like that time you let Koothrappali wax your eyebrows. I’ve got to find a way to stop this thing.

Leonard: Buddy, I don’t think you can. I mean, once it’s out there, it’s out there. This thing is like the science equivalent of a sex tape.
Sheldon: You know, frankly, I’d prefer a sex tape.

Leonard: You don’t know what a sex tape is, do you?
Sheldon: No.

Voice: There he is. (General applause) 
Sheldon: Stop it. Stop celebrating me.

Voice: Woo!
Sheldon: And no woos. Oh, not you, Dr. Woo. You’re fine. I want you all to know that you have no reason to applaud me. My so-called breakthrough wasn’t the result of my genius. It was nothing more than a boneheaded mistake. So please refrain from praising me for it in the future.

Raj: Wait, I don’t understand. They didn’t find the element?
Sheldon: Oh, no, they found the element. (More applause) No, no, stop it. I don’t need to take this admiration from the likes of you people. How do I make them stop loving me?

Howard: I’m getting worried about Bernadette. I’m gonna call and check on her.
Sheldon: The National Science Foundation wants to give me a substantial grant.

Raj: Oh, that’s a big deal.
Sheldon: I know. When will this nightmare end?

Amy: I’m not.
Sheldon: You’re not?

Amy: Sheldon, I’ve been thinking about it, and you’re right. You don’t deserve any credit. All you did was misread some numbers on a table. A very easy table, too. Honestly, I’m embarrassed for you.
Sheldon: That’s the most romantic thing I’ve ever heard.

Penny: Damn it, everyone’s better at this than me.
Sheldon: Congratulations, Dr. Fowler. You just made the fort.

Leonard: Oh, no.
Sheldon: I hate to pile on the bad news, but I just got a raise.

Amy: Sheldon, get over here.
Sheldon: She might be contagious. Don’t you think I’m having a rough enough day?

Howard (singing): If I didn’t have you, life would be blue, I’d be Dr. Who without the TARDIS.
Sheldon: Is it me, or does she not look so good?

Bernadette: Howie, that was amazing. Look, I’m shaking.
Sheldon: She’s sick, I knew it. Bye.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I can’t believe I read this table wrong. I blame you.

Amy: Me? What did I do?
Sheldon: You distract me. I’ve been distracted since the moment I met you. 

Amy: Sorry.
Sheldon: Well, you should be. Because all I can think about is how much I want to kiss you. And not just on the cheek, but on the mouth. Like mommies and daddies do.

Leonard: That’s because you’ve never seen him on restock the medicine cabinet day.
Sheldon: Look. A new topical antihistamine with lidocaine. Wow. I can’t wait until I get a rash. 

Leonard: Oh, Gas-X has a new ultra strength. I guess they really do read their mail.
Sheldon: Hey, isn’t that Professor Proton?

Leonard: Oh, yeah.
Sheldon: Look at him, just standing in line like he wasn’t moderately famous 30 years ago. Let’s go say hello.

Leonard: Oh, maybe we shouldn’t bother him.
Sheldon: I’m not going to bother him, I’m going to talk to him.

Leonard: He thinks there’s a difference.
Sheldon: Arthur? Arthur, it’s me, Sheldon Cooper. You may not remember because of your advanced age.

Arthur: Trust me, I, I remember.
Sheldon: This is my girlfriend, Amy. Amy, this is television legend Arthur Jeffries. His science show inspired millions of children.

Leonard: No, she’s not.
Sheldon: So, what prescription are you getting filled?

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: No. Wait, I want to guess. Don’t tell me.

Amy: Sheldon, come on.
Sheldon: No, no, no. I’m really good at this. All right, give me a hint. Does it involve difficulty initiating a stream of anything?

Leonard: Hey, Sheldon, let’s go mock the people buying homeopathic medicine, you love that.
Sheldon: But I’m hanging out with my friend, and we’re having fun. Look how happy he is.

Leonard: Hey, I got an email from Professor Proton.
Sheldon: Goody. What’s it say?

Leonard: He’s working on a paper about nano vacuum tubes, and wants to know if I’d take a look at it.
Sheldon: That’s strange. That he would come to you for that and not me. Oh, I got two emails from him. Do you have Leonard’s email address? And. Never mind, I found it. I can’t believe he picked you over me.

Raj: Yeah, it’s nothing to cry about.
Sheldon: Sheldon Cooper does not cry.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: And to think I idolized that man. And why? At the end of the day he’s just another Hollywood phony.

Amy: Is it really worth getting upset about?
Sheldon: Yeah, they say don’t meet your heroes. Don’t peek behind that curtain of fame and celebrity, because if you do, you’ll see them as they really are, degenerate carnival folk.

Amy: Come on, he’s a retired kids show host.
Sheldon: That’s even worse. Using the sweet candy of science to trick children into loving him. Pervert.

Amy: Have you ever thought about why Arthur didn’t want you to read his paper?
Sheldon: Yes, I have. And my only conclusion is the prescription he was picking up the other day was for cuckoo pills.

Amy: Maybe he found you, um, a bit much.
Sheldon: That’s kind of a stretch. Look, when it comes to social skills, I’ve mastered the big three. There’s the coy smile. There’s the friendly chuckle. There’s the vocalization of sympathy. Aw. That last one’s tricky, I’m still working on it.

Amy: From what I saw the other day, I could understand why he and some people might find you…
Sheldon: What?

Amy: Doesn’t matter.
Sheldon: No, go ahead, say it. I know what it is. I’ve heard it my whole life. The word’s annoying. Go ahead, say it. Say it. Say I’m annoying.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, it won’t hurt my feelings. Go ahead, Amy, say I’m annoying. I’m annoying. I’m annoying. I’m annoying. Yeah, now, uh, now where are you going? Look, you know you want to say it, say it. Say I’m annoying. Go ahead, say it. Say it. Say it. Amy, say it. Well, she can’t stand it when I’m right.

Scene: Professor Proton’s house. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Arthur. (Knock, knock, knock) Arthur. (Knock, knock, knock) Arthur. Door knocker. That’s TV money.

Arthur: Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, did I wake you?

Arthur: Of course you woke me, it’s seven thirty.
Sheldon: Well, I would have been here sooner, but for some reason your home isn’t on this map of Hollywood stars.

Arthur: What do you want, Sheldon?
Sheldon: It’s been pointed out by my girlfriend that I may have been annoying to you.

Arthur: She sounds like a keeper.
Sheldon: Anyway, I wanted to apologize. I am truly sorry.

Arthur: All right, apology accepted. Have a nice night.
Sheldon: No, no, now that we’ve cleared the air, I wanted to discuss another matter with you.

Arthur: Sheldon, in a couple hours I have to get up, pee and then wander around the house.
Sheldon: Well, then, I’ll make this quick. Um, I want to talk about the paper you sent Leonard. Now, I know he said it’s promising and he’s going to collaborate on it, but now that you and I are friends again, I am at your disposal. And, um, frankly, lending my name and reputation to it will help, because a lot of people think that you’re a washed-up has-been. Or dead.

Arthur: I should be so lucky.
Sheldon: So, uh, what do you say?

Arthur: You know, if it’s all the same with you, I, I think I’ll, I’ll stick with Leonard.
Sheldon: It’s because I’m annoying, right? I know it is. Say it. Say it. Say I’m annoying. 

Arthur: Good night.
Sheldon: Say it. Arthur, say it. Say I’m annoying. Say it. Say it. I’m annoying. Say it. 

Arthur: You’re annoying.
Sheldon: Well, that really hurt. 

Leonard: I’m sorry, Dr. Jeffries, I’m just excited. This nano vacuum tube idea of yours is, it’s really interesting.
Sheldon: Hello, Leonard. Oh, hello, Arthur. What an odd coincidence that you’re both here.

Leonard: Why is it odd?
Sheldon: Because as it just so happens, I’m also spending the day with a beloved children’s television science personality. Isn’t that right, new friend and colleague Bill Nye the Science Guy. Sorry, I replaced you with a newer model.

Bill: He said I’d be speaking to a class.
Sheldon: No, I said you were teaching someone a lesson. Now let’s go.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Arthur?

Arthur: Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I’m surprised to see you here.

Arthur: Yeah, me, too. Somewhere around the third floor I began to see a, a white light.
Sheldon: I’ll get Leonard.

Arthur: No, no, no, I’m, I’m here, I’m here to see you.
Sheldon: If you’re hoping to get in touch with Bill Nye, I can’t help you. I’ve been informed that he’s now Bill Nye the Restraining Order Guy.

Arthur: No, I, I, I was thinking, if it isn’t too much trouble, I’d like to get your opinion about my, my paper.
Sheldon: Thank you. It would be an honour.

Arthur: Oh. Uh, great.
Sheldon: Actually, I don’t need that. I hacked into your e-mail account and read it.

Arthur: And, what did you think?
Sheldon: Well, first, I think the fact that you use your birthday as a password is embarrassing. 

Arthur: Mmm. Thank you.
Sheldon: Second, um, I thought your paper was inspired. 

Arthur: Oh, well, that, that means a lot to me.
Sheldon: Can I invite you in for tea?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Yeah, and my eighth favourite episode of Professor Proton was Alka-Seltzer rocket. You said, plop, plop, fizz, fizz, oh, what a blast-off it is. Remember? Remember that? Remember?

Leonard: He can’t help it. He can’t. He really can’t.
Sheldon: Oh, wait here. I’ll get some Alka-Seltzer, we can build that rocket, and we can shoot it at Bill Nye’s house. As long as I’m not within 500 feet of it.

Leonard: That one over there.
Sheldon: Leonard, where are the Skee-Ball tickets?

Leonard: Skee-Ball tickets?
Sheldon: Yeah, from when we went to the arcade three years ago? I finally decided what prize I want. Hurry up.

Penny: Ooh, what are you gonna get?
Sheldon: None of your business. But when you see me wearing a flower in my lapel later, you are most welcome to sniff it.

Leonard: Yup, oh, here you go.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you. Here, get yourself an eraser for your troubles.

Leonard: Why? Because I got an ugly, itchy sweater, and my brother got a car? No, I was her favorite.
Sheldon: I seem to be a few tickets short. Are there more in the box?

Leonard: Hmm, I think I got them all. Nope, they’re not in there.
Sheldon: Well, you barely looked. Let me see.

Leonard: No, no, no, I, I looked, and there’s, there’s, there’s no more tickets.
Sheldon: Leonard, let me look in the box.

Leonard: Okay, okay. I’m gonna show you what’s in the box. But just promise not to flip out.
Sheldon: Why would I flip out? Is it a spider? It’s a spider.

Leonard: Okay, Sheldon, I know I was supposed to return this DVD a long time ago, and I know we rented it on your card. But it’s been, like, seven years and clearly nothing bad has happened. So in-in-in-instead of being a giant pain in the ass like you always are, what if this one time you just tried staying calm?
Sheldon: That seems like a reasonable request. Although so did, hey, Leonard, would you mind returning that DVD?

Leonard: I’m sorry. I’ll, I’ll take care of it.
Sheldon: Okay.

Leonard: I mean it, I’m going to.
Sheldon: I believe you.

Leonard: And you’re going to stay calm?
Sheldon: I said I would.

Leonard: So, when you say you’re not going to freak out about the DVD, here’s what that means. Don’t fixate on it. Don’t wake me up in the middle of the night. Or nag me through the door while I’m on the toilet.
Sheldon: Okay, first, talking to you while you’re on the toilet isn’t exactly a picnic for me either, okay? Remember, when you can hear me, I can hear you. And second, you completely disregard how uncomfortable unresolved issues are for me. It’s, it’s like, a, an itch in my brain I can’t scratch.

Leonard: When I broke my arm I used to stick a coat hanger down there. You ever try that? Maybe go in through the ear?
Sheldon: You wouldn’t make jokes if you could feel the way I feel.

Leonard: Well, I don’t know how to do that.
Sheldon: How about this? I promise I won’t pester you about the DVD. You can defecate in peace. That’s a win for both of us. But, until this matter is resolved, I would like you to wear this sweater. With nothing underneath it.

Leonard: That’s stupid. Why?
Sheldon: You say it’s itchy and uncomfortable. I say situations like this make me feel the same way. 

Leonard: I’m telling you, try the hanger.
Sheldon: Put it on. Let’s share the experience.

Leonard: You got it. If this sweater shuts you up, I’m gonna make a fortune selling them to everyone we know. Now all I need to do is head down to the video store and return the DVD.
Sheldon: Oh, did I forget to tell you? That store went out of business years ago.

Leonard: Really?
Sheldon: How those nipples feeling, chief?

Howard: Is the point that you’re an idiot?
Sheldon: Gentlemen, please. Leonard is trying to walk a mile in my metaphorical shoes. He can’t walk in my actual shoes. He has the feet of a toddler.

Howard: Hey, what’re you working on?
Sheldon: I’m thinking about how one could use the fact that a rapidly rotating mirror turns virtual photons into real ones as a method of observing dark energy.

Howard: That’s a pretty cool idea.
Sheldon: Yeah. It’s great you’re here. I’d love to get an engineer’s opinion.

Howard: Sure.
Sheldon: This chair is squeaky. Now, do I fix it or get a new one?

Leonard: Or it’s resolved.
Sheldon: Hey, that next of kin thing sounds pretty good.

Amy: I must say, Sheldon, you’re handling this DVD business with an impressive amount of maturity.
Sheldon: I don’t know why that surprises you. I’m a grown man. As should be evident by this sport coat and very real flower in my lapel.

Amy: Is there some kind of new coping mechanism you’re employing?
Sheldon: The more interesting question you should be asking is, what does this flower smell like?

Amy: I’m gonna go with sad. So what’s the story with you and this DVD?
Sheldon: There’s nothing to tell. Maybe I purchased a book entitled Don’t Sweat the Small Stuff and I followed its wise suggestions, one of which was stop and smell the flowers.

Amy: Seriously?
Sheldon: Please. Ha-ha, Oh.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: How is it I can conceptualize a methodology of examining dark matter in the universe but can’t figure out how to fix a novelty squirt flower?

Amy: I think the real question is, why do you waste your time with cheap, childish pranks?
Sheldon: There’s probably a deep reason. Which I’d be happy to discuss with you over some peanut brittle in a can.

Leonard: Okay, Sheldon, I am out of options. Video store owner, Nursis Manookian, has no next of kin.
Sheldon: Well, you seem hot under the collar, or is that the sweater?

Leonard: Oh, oh, no, no. It’s because I spent all afternoon at the Armenian church where his funeral mass was held. According to Father Solakian, no one attended. Luckily, my trip wasn’t a complete waste. I lit a candle and prayed for your death but I’m not Armenian, so it probably won’t work. This is over, right?
Sheldon: Oh, not necessarily. I suggest you look for long-lost relatives either in Armenia or Lebanon.

Leonard: Listen to me, Sheldon. I am not going to Lebanon to return Super Mario Brothers the movie.
Sheldon: You know, it might be fun. You love hummus.

Leonard: Why isn’t this bothering you? Isn’t your brain getting itchy? This is on your card. This could be ruining your credit score. Why isn’t this making you crazy?
Sheldon: Leonard, I have something to tell you, but I want you to promise not to flip out.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Seven years ago, I found out the DVD was late and I paid for it.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I was going to mention it at the time, but then I thought, some day, this might be a teachable moment.

Amy: Sheldon, that was diabolical.
Sheldon: I know. And it wasn’t easy. Do you have any idea what it’s like to wait for years and never know if you’re going to finally get satisfaction?

Penny: Yes, it is.
Sheldon: Yeah,uh, look, it is scientifically impossible for a person to tip a cow. Even you, with your stocky build and lumberjack shoulders, you couldn’t do it.

Howard: Mmm. I’m gonna say not. That’s just based on me trying to roll my mom over when she’s snoring. Speaking of that big side of beef, uh, she’s invited all of you to Thanksgiving at her house.
Sheldon: Mmm. You know, I’ve been told that a bald refusal of an invitation is rude and one must instead offer up a polite excuse, so I’d love to go, but, unfortunately, that sounds awful.

Howard: Please? Bernadette’s bringing her dad ’cause her mom’s out of town, and I never have anything to say to that guy.
Sheldon: Oh, since you put it that way, I’d love to go, but that sounds even more awful.

Leonard: It’d actually be nice to not hear Sheldon complain about my cooking all day.
Sheldon: Uh, excuse me, but every year you prepare a terrible meal and every year I criticize it. Do our traditions mean nothing to you?

Howard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Ugh, fine, I’ll go. But if her food is delicious, Thanksgiving is ruined, and it’s on you.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Do we really have to go to Mrs. Wolowitz’s house?

Amy: We do. And I expect you to be on your best behaviour.
Sheldon: Now I know how the African slaves felt. Being dragged from their homes to labour under the yoke of the white man.

Amy: Are you honestly comparing Thanksgiving dinner at Wolowitz’s mom’s with one of the greatest tragedies in the history of mankind?
Sheldon: Yes.

Leonard: Yeah, they are.
Sheldon: He’s right.

Penny: But it didn’t seem real.
Sheldon: Let me ask you a question. At any point, was Las Vegas on its side?

Amy: No traffic, we’re sailing.
Sheldon: Yes. Like we’re on a ship. Coming from Africa to America.

Amy: Sheldon, that’s completely inappropriate. You can’t keep comparing yourself to a slave.
Sheldon: Yes, Miss Amy.

Penny: I will. Why are you making this such a big deal?
Sheldon: Oh, oh, oh, I have a reason. It could be because you said yes to marrying Zack, but every time Leonard’s proposed, he’s gotten a resounding no. Yeah, that’s just off the top of my head.

Amy: It says here you can get an annulment if any of the following conditions are met. Were you unable to consummate the marriage?
Sheldon: Hah!Penny? Next.

Amy: Happy Thanksgiving.
Sheldon: It smells wonderful. Is anyone slaving away in the kitchen? Because I, too, know…

Leonard: Wuh, Penny.
Sheldon: I don’t know the first thing about women, but I would not follow her.

Mike: I’m trying to watch the game. Shut up. Oh, how do you not make a first down there?
Sheldon: They passed against a nickel defence. They should have run it off-tackle.

Mike: How the hell do you know that?
Sheldon: My father loved football. He always made me watch it before I was allowed to do my homework.

Mike: What do you think they ought to do now?
Sheldon: I would throw a quick slant to a wideout, given that the defence is showing blitz.

Scene: The living room.
Sheldon: I don’t care for your mother’s bathroom. There’s not an angle to do one’s business without a clown figurine staring at you.

Mike: Yeah, that’s why. You remember the Thanksgiving game when it snowed in Dallas?
Sheldon: 1993. Leon Lett blew the game in the final seconds and the Dolphins emerged victorious. Then I finally got to do my calculus.

Mike: I was so pissed, I wanted to shoot my TV.
Sheldon: So was my dad. And then he did.

Mike: So, does your dad still live in Texas?
Sheldon: No. He died when I was 14.

Mike: I’m sorry to hear that.
Sheldon: So was the man who owned the local liquor store. He cried and cried.

Mike: Oh, thanks. So, if your dad died when you were 14, you were never old enough to have a beer with the man.
Sheldon: No, sir. He did try to give me one for my high school graduation, but I was 11 and my mom said no.

Mike: Well, you’re having one with me.
Sheldon: All right.

Howard: I never had a beer with my dad, either.
Sheldon: Do you mind? We’re having a moment here.

Mike: I don’t know what’s scarier, the bathroom clowns or the woman that put them there.
Sheldon: All I know is you can only fit one of her in a car. And there’s the clown that came out of her. I really didn’t want to come here, but this is shaping up to be one of the best Thanksgivings I’ve had in a long time.

Bernadette: Hey. Howie says you’ve been making fun of him all day. Now, both of you apologize right now.
Sheldon: She’s so tiny. It’s funny when she’s mad.

Amy: All right, mister, I think you owe Howard and Bernadette an apology.
Sheldon: Perhaps you’re right. I’m sorry for my behaviour. I’ve had alcohol, and it’s caused me to be inappropriate.

Amy: Thank you.
Sheldon: Ain’t she great? 

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Now, how’s about you get us a couple of beers?

Mike: Hey, Sheldon, what do you say we go outside and throw around the old pigskin?
Sheldon: This is a Jewish house. I don’t think they have pigskin.

Mike: Well, I’m drunk.
Sheldon: I just vomited on a lot of clowns.

Ira Flatow: This is Science Friday. I’m Ira Flatow. My guest today is responsible for the discovery of the first stable super-heavy element. Welcome, Dr. Sheldon Cooper.
Sheldon: Thank you. Uh, the university made me come here. I didn’t want to. Uh, big fan of the show.

Ira: So, I understand that you actually discovered this element by mistake.
Sheldon: Yes.

Ira: And some people in the science community are calling it The Wonder Blunder.
Sheldon: Who? Give me their names. I bet it’s Wolowitz.

Ira: It’s just such a fascinating story. Your calculations are way off, but they find the element anyway. It’s like misreading a treasure map and still finding the treasure.
Sheldon: Can we talk about something else? Do you know that I yodel?

Ira: That’s interesting, but this could be taking you down the path toward a Nobel Prize. And in chemistry, no less. And wouldn’t that be unusual? Because you’re a physicist.
Sheldon: Yes, yes, I’d be a physicist with a Nobel in chemistry. Everyone laugh at the circus freak. You know, I don’t need to sit here and take this, Flatow. It is because of bullies like you, every day more and more Americans are making the switch to television.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is on the phone.
Sheldon: President Seibert, I don’t know why you’re yelling. You’re the one who made me go on the radio. I was expecting a professional science interview, not an attack by some morning zoo shock jock. Well, if the university needs money so badly, perhaps you should start a swear jar. Whoa, that one’s worth a dollar.

Amy: I know you don’t like it, but every time you do an interview, it raises the profile of the university. That translates to funding.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, I’m not just some trained monkey dancing for coins.

Penny: How can you not be happy? You’re tall, thin and famous. Oh, my God, I’m jealous of Sheldon.
Sheldon: Look, you’re gonna be doing this stuff for a while. You’re just gonna have to find a way to get used to it.

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. Sheldon is playing with his train set.
Sheldon: Here comes the Embarrassment Express. With stops at Fraudville, Wonder Blunderberg, and Kansas City. Because it’s a hub.

Amy: Sheldon, can I come in?
Sheldon: Do you have cookies?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Good. I don’t deserve cookies. Come in. Wil?

Wil Wheaton: Hey, Sheldon. It’s been a while.
Sheldon: Why are you here?

Wil: Amy said you were having a rough time, and I thought maybe we could talk. Is that okay?
Sheldon: Certainly. Although, right now, I’m having a rough time because there’s three people in my room, and it’s starting to feel like a discotheque.

Wil: Yeah, I know a little something about that.
Sheldon: Oh, nonsense, Wil. Your endless tweets are not that bad.

Wil: I remember why it’s been a while. Sheldon, I was actually talking about when I was a kid on Star Trek.
Sheldon: How could you not like getting attention for playing Wesley Crusher? You were wonderful. A know-it-all boy genius with an eidetic memory. Who couldn’t relate to that?

Wil: Well, not everybody felt that way. A lot of people really hated the character, and some of them hated me because of it. I would do interviews, and people would be mean to me.
Sheldon: That just happened to me. Next time you’re stuck for a tweet, feel free to say what a jerk Ira Flatow is.

Wil: I’m just saying that there was a time when I thought I would never get out of Wesley Crusher’s shadow. But now, it’s just one small part of a pretty great life, and it’s a part that I’m happy is there.
Sheldon: I do see what you’re saying. That helps.

Wil: Good.
Sheldon: Would you two like to stay and play trains with me?

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: Oh, great, now, I work the controls, I say all aboard. You sit quietly and watch.

Wil:Can I blow the whistle?
Sheldon: You should probably go.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello, President Siebert. Thank you for taking my call. I just wanted you to know that you can now expect enthusiastic participation from me regarding my discovery. Oh, no, no, no, no. No need to thank mNo, thank my friend, Wil Wheaton. For your information, I have nine friends, hmm? Ten if we include you. Nine it is. Ah, it’s ten. I’ll count Wolowitz. Hello, friend Leonard.

Leonard: Hey, you’re in a good mood.
Sheldon: I’m in a great mood.

Leonard: Well, you’re about to be in an even better one. I didn’t want to say anything until I knew for sure, but, I’ve been re-running the tests on your element in my lab and I disproved it. Your element does not exist.
Sheldon: Yeah, but what about the Chinese research team? They found it.

Leonard: Yeah, it turns out someone added simulated signals to the data files. They faked the results.
Sheldon: Really?

Leonard: Yes. Do you know what that means? That means all of this attention that you hate goes away.
Sheldon: So no more interviews?

Leonard: No, it’s all over.
Sheldon: I can’t believe it.

Leonard: Well, you’re welcome.
Sheldon: You robbed me of my greatest achievement.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I’m back down to nine friends. Make it eight, I’m sick of Wolowitz, too.

Leonard: I, I don’t understand. All you’ve done since you discovered this stupid element was complain. I was trying to make you happy.
Sheldon: By taking away my only claim to fame? Well, if you wanted to make me happy, you could have told me a joke. Or shown me a cute video of a koala and an otter becoming unlikely friends.

Leonard: Oh, there is no winning with you. And koalas and otters don’t even live near each other.
Sheldon: That’s what makes their friendship unlikely,

Penny: Hey, what’s with all the yelling?
Sheldon: Leonard disproved my element. Now all the attention is going to go away.

Penny: Oh, that’s great. You must be thrilled, 
Sheldon: That’s it, I’m down to seven friends.

Penny: He’s counting hobbits and superheroes, right?
Sheldon: When I thought the element was real, I didn’t want it. But now that Leonard made it not exist, I want it more than anything in the world.

Leonard: The, the element never existed. I didn’t take it away, science took it away. Be mad at science.
Sheldon: Don’t you dare use science against me. Science is my best friend. Oh, good, I’m back up to eight.

Penny: Actually, I get what he’s saying.
Sheldon: Oh, yes, nine. Welcome back, buddy.

Penny: It’s like if you’re dating someone you’re not that into, and then they break up with you and then you want them more than ever.
Sheldon: I have no idea what she’s talking about, but we’re ganging up on you so I agree.

Leonard: Okay, Sheldon, what do you want me to do, hide the information? If I don’t publish it, it’s just a matter of time before someone else does.
Sheldon: No, no, of course you have to publish. That’s your responsibility as a scientist. Doing otherwise would be unethical. You have no choice.

Leonard: Fine, I’ll publish.
Sheldon: Can you believe this guy?

Leonard: Hey. I just wanted to let you know that I, I posted my findings.
Sheldon: I saw. And I just posted a retraction of my paper. Now the whole scientific community knows I was wrong.

Leonard: These things happen all the time, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Not to me. The only other retraction I ever had to issue was when I was seven and I conceded that my brother was the greatest ninja in East Texas. But that was just a ploy to get my face out of his armpit.

Leonard: Okay, Barry, that’s enough.
Sheldon: No, no, no, that’s okay. I can fight my own battles. Isn’t that right, Bawwy.

Barry: Is? Is that a wefewence to my speech impediment? That’s pwetty hurtful. I, I can’t contwol it.
Sheldon: You’re right, That was uncalled for. I take it back.

Penny: Bark once if you need me to call PETA.
Sheldon: What’s that animal doing in our apartment?

Leonard: Oh, relax, she’s in her crate. She can’t get out.
Sheldon: I have two words for you, Jurassic Park. This day just keeps getting worse and worse.

Penny: You know, if it makes you feel any better…
Sheldon: It probably won’t.

Amy: Sheldon, it’s a beautiful night. Why don’t you and I go for a nice walk together?
Sheldon: Oh, everything is just sex with you isn’t it?

Leonard: Thanks.
Sheldon: Thank you. Ira, if I may, I’d like to apologize for my behaviour last week.

Ira: It’s all right.
Sheldon: Now, isn’t there something you’d like to say to me?

Leonard: Well…
Sheldon: I believe I can answer that.

Leonard: He asked me.
Sheldon: Fine.

Leonard: As I was saying…
Sheldon: You’re telling it wrong. Ira, to really understand the story here, you have to start at the very beginning. A small town in East Texas, where a young genius named…

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: That’s right, Sheldon Cooper. He was bitten by his neighbour’s dog, leading to his first scientific breakthrough, the doggie death-ray. Which, sadly, he couldn’t build because Santa wouldn’t bring him enriched uranium.

Ira: You know, I’d really like to hear it from Dr. Hofstadter, if it’s okay with you.
Sheldon: What a surprise. Did you invite me back just so you could ignore me?

Leonard: Sheldon, this interview is supposed to be about me.
Sheldon: Well, that seems like a snooze. Even for public radio.

Amy: A little early for alcohol, isn’t it?
Sheldon: You know, I don’t just say smart things about science. I also yodel. (Does)

Penny: Hey, Sheldon, you want to play next?
Sheldon: Oh, I would, but I’m on my way out.

Leonard: Where?
Sheldon: Texas.

Leonard: Is someone sick?
Sheldon: Yes. My sister’s uterus came down with a baby.

Penny: Oh, she’s pregnant? That’s great. You’re gone an uncle. Uncle Sheldon.
Sheldon: No, I will be Uncle Dr. Cooper.

Amy: How come you never said she was pregnant?
Sheldon: Well, I never told you about my brother’s kidney stone. You want to hear about everything that comes out of my family’s genitals?

Leonard: Well, congrats, and it’s nice you’re gonna be there for your sister.
Sheldon: Yes. I’m filling in for her husband who’s recovering from a horrible motorcycle accident. Lucky duck.

Penny: Wow, so, how long will you be gone?
Sheldon: Well, she’s due tomorrow. Although it did take her six years to finish high school, so who knows?

Amy: Can I give you a ride to the airport?
Sheldon: Oh, no, thank you, I don’t want to be an inconvenience. Chop-chop, Leonard. We leave in ten minutes.

Stuart: Hello.
Sheldon: The second I go out of town you throw a Christmas party without me? 

Amy: Yeah, kinda.
Sheldon: That’s so thoughtful. You guys are the best.

Penny: Hey, how’s your sister?
Sheldon: <i>She went into labor an hour ago.

Amy: That’s wonderful. So you’re at the hospital?
Sheldon: No, she chose to have a home birth because she wants to live in the Stone Age and a cave wasn’t available.

Raj: You know, many people believe that home births are better because the mother is in a warm, comfortable environment where she can be nurtured by loved ones.
Sheldon: And turn the bedroom floor into an amniotic Slip ‘n Slide.

Mrs Cooper (off): Shelly, come on. Your sister’s fully dilated and she wants a nice family picture before there’s blood everywhere.
Sheldon: Oh, boy. I picked the wrong day to wear my good robot T-shirt.

Amy (Tablet ringing): Hi, Sheldon. Everything okay?
Sheldon: No, it’s not. I’ve seen things. Lady things.

Amy: Listen to me. That is not the way they usually look.
Sheldon: Doesn’t matter. This is no way to make new humans. People coming out of people. It’s some kind of dirty magic show.

Mrs Cooper (off): Sheldon Lee Cooper. You get back in this room right now. And bring a mop.
Sheldon: Did you hear that? A mop. I have two PhDs yet somehow I’m the janitor of my sister’s birth canal.

Penny: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: Doing laundry?
Sheldon: Of course I’m doing laundry. Saturday night is laundry night, and I’m in a laundry room, so, I believe your inference is justified.

Penny: So, what do you think?
Sheldon: A tad asymmetrical, but nothing to be concerned about.

Penny: Please, Sheldon. I need you.
Sheldon: To what?

Penny: To take me.
Sheldon: I’m not taking you anywhere till you put on a shirt.

Penny: Come on, Sheldon. You and me right here.
Sheldon: Penny, for the thousandth time, I’m saving myself for someone special. Perhaps a cute bespectacled neuroscientist with hair the color of mud. 

Amy (tablet ringing): How’s it going, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Actually, much better.

Leonard: Oh, good. Is the baby born yet?
Sheldon: I don’t know. I just got back. 

Amy: Where’d you go?
Sheldon: My mother asked me to get some towels. I took advantage of the vague request and went to Bed, Bath & Beyond. (Scream from other room) Excuse me, I’m on the phone. So rude.

Amy (tablet ringing): How’s it going, Sheldon?
Sheldon: That’s it. The baby’s here. It’s a boy.

Raj: Congrats.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you. I wasn’t sure I was gonna to make it. But my mother gave me some ice chips, my sister told me to breathe, and I just thought to myself, Sheldon, if you can make it through the Green Lantern movie, you can make it through this.

Leonard: Well, good for you, buddy. We’ll let you get back in there.
Sheldon: Oh no, no, I’m not going back in there. That baby is so irritating. He has literally been crying his entire life.

Amy: Come on, Sheldon, you should go.
Sheldon: Why?

Amy: Well, you always complain that you never had an intelligent role model growing up, and now you can be one for your nephew.
Sheldon: Ugh, all right, I’ll go. But from what I’ve seen, his attention span is as limited as his bladder control.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: You okay?

Amy: Just really glad you’re back.
Sheldon: Me, too. I got a lot of TV to catch up on.

Amy: I missed you.
Sheldon: To quote Han Solo, I know.

Amy: Did you miss me?
Sheldon: I would’ve preferred to have you there with me.

Amy: Oh.
Sheldon: Or instead of me.

Amy: Did you hold the baby?
Sheldon: I did. 

Amy: And? How did it make you feel?
Sheldon: Looking into the blank, innocent eyes of a creature that couldn’t begin to comprehend anything I was saying? Basically just another day at the office.

Amy: Hmm. Can we maybe put the phones down and have an actualhuman conversation?
Sheldon: We can, but thanks to Steve Jobs, we don’t have to.

Howard: Oh, yeah
Sheldon: Yay, Penny.

Howard: If you’re really desperate to meet women and like having food eaten out of your mouth, I could set you up with my mom.
Sheldon: Why is that funny? That’s just unhygienic.

Leonard: It’s a joke.
Sheldon: I don’t think so. I believe that a joke is a brief oral narrative with a climactic humorous twist. For example, uh, Wolowitz’s mother is so fat that she decided to go on a diet, or exercise, or both. See? The twist is that people don’t usually change. Well, they don’t.

Penny: Oh, that’s so sweet of you, but I was gonna steal food from here. You know, my treat.
Sheldon: Wait, if Howard’s mother is coming, then you should also steal marbles. Because she’s obese, and hippos are obese, and in the popular board game Hungry Hungry Hippos, they eat marbles. Maybe I need to dumb these down for you. 

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: Leonard, do you think I’m funny?

Leonard: No. Do you?
Sheldon: I think I’m hysterical.

Leonard: I take it back. That was funny.
Sheldon: The philosopher Henri Bergson says it’s funny when a human being behaves like an object. 

Leonard: I bet that bit killed at The Chuckle Hut.
Sheldon: Oh, he didn’t perform stand-up comedy, he was a philosopher.

Leonard: You know, I think we’re zeroing in on your problem.
Sheldon: Perhaps I’ll spend some time developing a unified theory of comedy, which will allow me to elicit laughter from anyone at any time. Unless they’re German, ’cause that’s a tough crowd.

Leonard: Are you set on people laughing with you? ‘Cause if you’re cool with at you…
Sheldon: I don’t get it.

Leonard: I know, but you’re going to be a TV star and you haven’t left me yet. That takes guts.
Sheldon: I don’t know about you, but I’m very uncomfortable with all this.

Amy: Why?
Sheldon: I’ve never seen this show before and now I’m starting with episode 246? It’s unnatural.

Amy: Just think of the first 245 as the prequel.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: Well, the diner scene. Where’s my diner scene?
Sheldon: Well, don’t ask me. Until I see the prequel, I’m lost.

Penny: This doesn’t make any sense. I mean, I, I thought I did a, a really good job, I… Excuse me.
Sheldon: I’ve been studying how to make people laugh. They say that comedy is tragedy plus time. Let’s tickle some ribs.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: This is interesting. Apparently, a key component in some forms of humour is the element of surprise. 

Amy: Well, that makes sense. The prefrontal cortex is responsible for planning and anticipation, and patients with brain lesions on their…
Sheldon: BRAIN LESIONS!

Amy: Sheldon, you scared me. That wasn’t funny.
Sheldon: Or maybe you have a stick up your prefrontal cortex.

Amy: Okay, the notion that you can read a few books and come up with a definitive theory of comedy is absurd. I mean, humour is a complex neurological… (Sheldon drops his trousers) Okay, that’s pretty good.
Sheldon: Excellent.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Kumquat?

Amy: I guess.
Sheldon: Ointment?

Amy: Sure.
Sheldon: Now, would you say ointment is more, equal to, or less funny than kumquat?

Amy: I don’t think I want to go out with you anymore.
Sheldon: Will you please stop joking around? I’m trying to figure this out.

Amy: Sheldon, how many words are you gonna go through?
Sheldon: All of them.

Penny: No, forget it. I take it back. Offer’s off the table.
Sheldon: Who’s in the mood to laugh?

Leonard: Really not a good time.
Sheldon: But I used science to construct the perfect joke.

Penny: No, no, I just need to be alone.
Sheldon: So, a sandwich, a rabbi and yo mama walk into a bar. Where are you going?

Leonard: To my room.
Sheldon: Should I follow you?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Leonard, wait.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I forgot to tell you the sandwich is promiscuous.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Can’t sleep?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Would you like to talk about it?

Leonard: Penny proposed, and I didn’t say yes.
Sheldon: Why not?

Leonard: That’s a good question.
Sheldon: Does that mean the relationship is over?

Leonard: I don’t know.
Sheldon: Why don’t you ask her?

Leonard: Because I’m afraid to know the answer.
Sheldon: Well, I’m sorry.

Leonard: That’s it? You’re not gonna make some dumb joke or some inappropriate comment?
Sheldon: No. You’re my friend, and, I’m sorry.

Leonard: Did you just put a kick me sign on my back?
Sheldon: No. That wouldn’t be funny at all.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: It’s an outrage.

Leonard: I know.
Sheldon: The university, they think they can do whatever they want. We just have to sit there and take it.

Leonard: You need to let it go, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You work tirelessly for someone, and this is what you get.

Leonard: Oh, my God, they’re just making you use your vacation days.
Sheldon: But I don’t want a vacation.

Leonard: Okay, listen, I don’t mean to diminish what you’re going through, but I’m a little distracted right now.
Sheldon: Oh, this again? So, Penny proposed, you didn’t say yes, and now you think you may have lost her love forever. How does this compare to me being forced to relax for a few days?

Leonard: It doesn’t.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Leonard: I’m gonna go talk to Penny. 
Sheldon: I’m going to go inside, put on my coziest pajamas, curl up with a good book and wait for this nightmare to be over. (Leonard knocks three times) Penny. Sorry.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Come on, take me to work with you.

Leonard: No. You’re on vacation.
Sheldon: Please. What if there’s a big breakthrough in science today and I’m not there to see it?

Leonard: Do you really think there’s gonna be a breakthrough without you there to do it?
Sheldon: No. I was just tricking you.

Leonard: Bye.
Sheldon: Leonard, wait. Take me with you.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Please.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Too bad. I’m coming with you.

Leonard: Oh, Sheldon, stay.
Sheldon: But.

Penny: Oh. Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: You okay?
Sheldon: I’m on vacation. What do you think?

Penny: Why are you sitting in the stairwell?
Sheldon: Leonard told me to stay.

Penny: Oh. Well, good boy.
Sheldon: Where are you going?

Penny: Oh, I have a ton of errands to run. I need to make copies of my headshot, send them off to agents and sign up for a new acting class.
Sheldon: Well, have fun.

Penny: Okay. You want to come with me?
Sheldon: Really?

Voice: Before we begin your guided meditation, close your eyes and picture yourself in a peaceful environment.
Sheldon: Okay. I’m inside the CERN super collider.

Voice: Now, take a deep, relaxing breath in through your nose. And let it out.
Sheldon: Wow. Didn’t see that coming.

Voice: In. 
Sheldon: Let me guess.

Voice: And out.
Sheldon: What was I gonna do? Two ins in a row? Where’s my lemonade?

Penny: I didn’t get it.
Sheldon: A fitting swan song to your career as a waitress, to forget my order one last time.

Penny: Do you think quitting my job was a mistake?
Sheldon: Do you see me drinking lemonade?

Penny: No. I’m serious.
Sheldon: Why do you ask?

Penny: Because Leonard just pissed me off. Am I being an idiot or not?
Sheldon: No, I don’t think you are. 

Penny: Really?
Sheldon: The best way to achieve a goal is to devote 100% of your time and energy to it. When I decided I was going to be a physicist, I didn’t take some other job in case it didn’t work out. Which wasn’t easy because there was a lot of pressure from Ms. Pearson for me to be chalk monitor that year.

Penny: Thank you. I needed to hear that. Why can’t Leonard understand it?
Sheldon: Because he’s not like us, Penny. We’re dreamers.

Penny: And hold three, two, one. Very good. Now let’s try Warrior 2. And hold.
Sheldon: I’ve read that there are great yogis who have such mastery over their bodies they can draw water in through their genitals.

Penny: Yeah, well, I don’t think we’re gonna get to do that today.
Sheldon: Too bad. It seems like a good way to drink a milk shake without getting brain freeze.

Leonard: How did she get you to do yoga?
Sheldon: Well, to be honest, I thought she said Yoda.

Penny: Sheldon, take a break.
Sheldon: Namaste.

Penny: Yeah, well, maybe we do.
Sheldon: I’m willing to if you guys are.

Leonard: Can we please have some privacy?
Sheldon: Y, No. I’m as much a part of this relationship as you two, and I think it’s high time we put all our cards on the table. For example, where is this going? Are you two ever getting married? And, if so, where will we all live? Have you thought about that?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Penny?

Leonard: For some reason, we’re planning a future where we both live with Sheldon forever.
Sheldon: Good. Now we’re getting somewhere.

Penny: Look, I know you think I’m being reckless, and you might be right, but I need to take this shot.
Sheldon: Yeah, no kidding. Despite what it says on her résumé, she is no longer 22. 

Penny: You keep saying you’re on my side, but you don’t act like it.
Sheldon: He does that to me, too. Why do we put up with it?

Penny: Well, it’s scary for me, too.
Sheldon: I’m fine with it.

Penny: Okay. Thank you.
Sheldon: Well, to celebrate this reconciliation, let’s all share a milk shake. Uh, Penny, you’ll need a straw.

Leonard: Oh, I’ve got butterflies.
Sheldon: Don’t get soft on me, Hofstadter. I will slap those glasses right off your face.

Leonard: They sell out incredibly fast, but as long as one of us gets in, we can buy passes…
Sheldon: Good Lord, this is not the time for flirting, keep it in your pants.

Raj: Oh, I have to go to the bathroom so bad.
Sheldon: Every year. I told you, wear a diaper.

Howard: Five, four, three, two, one. 
Sheldon: It’s live. Go, go, go, go, go.

Raj: Anyone in?
Sheldon: No.

Howard: Nope.
Sheldon: Do not stop refreshing your screens.

Leonard: I did it, I did it, I’m in the queue.
Sheldon: Yay! And they say firefighters are the real heroes.

Leonard: Oh, Thursday’s gone. Just Sunday left.
Sheldon: Oh, Sunday’s the worst. Everybody’s leaving, most of the good panels are over, and the only T-shirts they have left are small and XXXXL.

Leonard: Sunday’s gone.
Sheldon: Not Sunday, I love Sunday.

Howard: I can’t believe we’re not going.
Sheldon: It’s okay. You know, there, there’s always WonderCon in Anaheim, you know? That, that’s just as good. Excuse me.

Penny: Oh, guys, this is really sad. And in a different way than it was twenty minutes ago.
Sheldon: I can’t believe we wasted all that time on our Hulk costumes.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, I have the solution to our Comic-Con problem. We don’t need them. I’m starting my own convention.

Leonard: Sheldon, just buy scalped tickets with us.
Sheldon: I told you. Buying scalped tickets is against the rules. If you get caught, you get banned from Comic-Con for life. Life, Leonard. You’re gonna feel pretty silly when we’re 80 years old, and you have to drive me down there and then wait in the car for three days.

Howard: I already found a guy online who’s willing to sell.
Sheldon: How do you know this isn’t a sting operation set up by the Comic-Con police?

Howard: Sheldon, just come with us. You’re not gonna make your own convention.
Sheldon: You know, there was a time when Comic-Con didn’t exist at all until one lone dreamer with a unique vision made it happen. And you mark my words, I’m gonna rip that guy off.

Leonard: Did you tell them that you’re holding your convention at a Marie Callender’s, and that every panellist gets a free slice of pie?
Sheldon: I didn’t even get to that part.

Leonard: Look, even your friend Wil Wheaton thinks this is a waste of time.
Sheldon: Not true. Wil thinks this is a great idea. He was just concerned that he wasn’t a big enough celebrity to headline such an amazing event. Also, that’s the same day that he shampoos his beard.

Leonard: Sheldon, buddy, I just don’t think this is going to come together for you.
Sheldon: You don’t know that. I still have plenty of solid leads on this list.

Leonard: Good luck.
Sheldon: No, wait. I need you to call Stan Lee, Leonard Nimoy and Bill Nye the Science Guy, ’cause, legally, I’m not allowed to. Oh, and, also, Carrie Fisher, you know, ’cause I hear he can be pretty nuts.

Howard: Oh, and I thought our days of pretending to be with women who don’t exist were over.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, I am one step away from securing a huge guest for my convention.

Leonard: Does that step include chloroform and a roll of duct tape?
Sheldon: I don’t think that will be necessary for Mr. James Earl Jones. You heard me. The voice of Darth Vader, the Lion King’s dad, and FYI, the guy who says, This is CNN. Which also sounds like Darth Vader.

Raj: How are you gonna get James Earl Jones?
Sheldon: Simple. Earlier today, he tweeted that he’s looking forward to going to his favourite sushi restaurant for dinner. I googled an interview from four years ago which was conducted in his favourite sushi restaurant. That’s where he’ll be, and that’s where I’m going, and…

Leonard: Sheldon, I don’t care if you get scalped tickets with us or not, but please don’t be creepy and go stalking this poor guy. You’re gonna get in trouble.
Sheldon: You’re the ones who are going to get in trouble. You’re buying non-transferable tickets. And from a stranger, no less. Not only can you get banned from Comic-Con, if caught, you could be charged with petty theft. You think about that while I’m warning James Earl Jones about the danger of posting his location on Twitter. He got lucky this time. There are some weirdoes out there. (To the Imperial March theme) Bom, bom, bom, bom, badum, bom, badum. Bom, bom, bom, bom, badum, bom, badum. Bom, bom, badala, baba, badalum, bom, badala, bom, bom, forgot my keys, bom, bom, bom, bom, badum, bom, badum… 

James Earl Jones: Let me guess. You like Star Wars. You know, I’ve been in other movies. But you don’t care about those, do you? I have one thing to say to people like you. I like Star Wars, too. Care to join me?
Sheldon: Thank you. My friend Leonard said if I bothered you while you were eating, you’d think I was a creepy stalker.

James Earl Jones: Well, your friend Leonard sounds like a real weenie.
Sheldon: He is, Mr. Earl Jones, he is.

James: You know, when I first read the script for Empire Strikes Back and Darth Vader told Luke he was his father, I thought for sure he was lying.
Sheldon: Me, too. But he wasn’t, was he?

James: He was not. How messed up was that?
Sheldon: So messed up.

Scene: An ice cream parlour.
Sheldon: Is it true, as a child, you were a stutterer and were functionally mute for eight years?

James: It is true.
Sheldon: Oh. Is it true they used scuba gear to create the sound of Darth Vader breathing?

James: They sure did.
Sheldon: Oh. Is it true that you were pre-med in college and you almost became a doctor?

James: That’s right.
Sheldon: Oh, James, I could listen to your stories all night.

Scene: A big wheel.
Sheldon: Hey, Los Angeles. I’m on a Ferris Wheel with Darth Vader. And he’s nicer than you think.

Scene: A karaoke bar.
Sheldon: In the jungle, the mighty jungle, the lion sleeps tonight…

James: Ah-wimoweh, ah-wimoweh…
Sheldon: Bring it home, Mufasa. Eee, eee, eee, eee, eee, um, um-a-weh.

Sceme: Outside a house.
Sheldon: I don’t understand what we’re doing.

James: Shh.
Sheldon: Whose house is this?

James: Ah, Sheldon, this is the perfect end to a perfect night.
Sheldon: Okay. But I think it could have ended with the karaoke.

James: What were you trying to ask me at the strip club?
Sheldon: Oh. How much does it cost to get them off my lap?

James: No. Something about a convention.
Sheldon: Oh, right. Well, my friends and I couldn’t get into Comic-Con this year, and I was trying to start my own convention, and I was going to ask if you would be a panelist.

James: Why don’t you and your friends come to Comic-Con with me?
Sheldon: Really?

James: Of course. And San Diego is right across the border from my favorite city on Earth, Tijuana, where I’m taking you every night. 
Sheldon: Ay-yi-yi. 

James: So, Beau Bridges is on my shoulders, and Jeff Bridges is on Marlon Brando’s shoulders, and remember, we do not have permission to be in the pool… hey, Sheldon, wake up. And Angie Dickinson is about to sic the dogs on us, and I go under the water and Marlon goes under the water, and the water raises about two feet and sloshes all over her patio, and the dogs freak out and run like hell, and then we run like hell. Oh, boy, that was a lot of fun.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, who’s Angie Dickinson?

Amy: Item 28, your pet name for me. Time’s running out on this. You need to make a decision.
Sheldon: I submitted you a notarised list. 

Amy: I’m sorry, but Gollum and Flakey are not acceptable.
Sheldon: Well, you don’t like Princess Corncob, you don’t like Fester, you’re just impossible to please.

Amy: We’ll come back to that one. This brings us to the final item in our annual State of the Relationship Summit. Item 29, Valentine’s Day.
Sheldon: Ah, the worst for last. Hmm. Classic Flakey.

Amy: Before you get upset, I believe I’ve come up with a way for us to celebrate the occasion that we both can enjoy.
Sheldon: People usually start a meeting with a joke, but you go ahead, end with one.

Amy: I propose we spend a weekend at a bed-and-breakfast in Napa Valley.
Sheldon: I hate every word in that sentence. Including in, at, we and a.

Amy: Come on, Sheldon. Why not?
Sheldon: For starters, a bed-and-breakfast forces you to eat with strangers at your table.

Amy: One step ahead of you, Bernadette and Wolowitz are going with us.
Sheldon: Oh, very well. What are the sleeping arrangements? We’ve only been dating for three years. If we were to share a room, people might talk.

Amy: I got you your own room. 
Sheldon: What if my room has a claw-foot bathtub?

Amy: It doesn’t. I know it makes you feel like you’re bathing inside a monster.
Sheldon: Look, I appreciate the effort, but I’m still unclear how this trip is supposed to be enjoyable for me.

Amy: We’re going to have Valentine’s Day dinner on a fully functioning vintage train.
Sheldon: Vintage? Be specific.

Amy: An Alcoa FA-4 diesel locomotive leading a train of meticulously restored 1915 Pullman first-class coaches.
Sheldon: Wow. I’m feeling the urge to hug you. And one, and two, all right, Gollum, we’re good.

Penny: That would really piss me off if I didn’t have a buzz going on.
Sheldon: Howard, which pocket watch will you be wearing for dinner on the train?

Howard: I’m sorry, what?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m afraid if we wear the same pocket watch, it will be embarrassing.

Howard: I don’t own a pocket watch.
Sheldon: Oh, my. Well, then my apologies for bringing up this sore spot.

Amy: What do you think, Sheldon?
Sheldon: It’s magnificent. This is going to be the best Valentine’s Day ever.

Amy: I’m so glad you like it.
Sheldon: I’m prepared to say I love it, as soon as I confirm there are no hobos aboard.

Waiter: And for the entrée, tonight’s special is a seafood risotto. Do you have any questions?
Sheldon: Uh, I do. Uh, does this train car have the original link-and-pin coupler or the Miller Hook and Platform?

Waiter: I’m sorry, I meant questions about the food.
Sheldon: Oh, of course. Um, is the seafood risotto being served on a train car with the original link-and-pin coupler or the Miller Hook and Platform?

Man in seat behind: Fun fact, it’s neither. They actually use the AAR type E coupler. If you listen carefully when the locomotive disconnects, you’ll hear the characteristic click-pshht-thunk of the knuckle.
Sheldon: Get out of town.

Scene: The dining car.
Sheldon: Do another one, do another one.

Man: Okay. Here’s my impression of the Amtrak Acela barreling down the Eastern Corridor. Wch-wch-wch-wch-shhhh. Wch-wch-wch-wch-shhhh. Wch-wch-wch-wch-shhhh. 
Sheldon: It’s like there’s a train in your mouth. Howard: Oh, yeah. I’ve got one. Um, the Amtrak Wolverine coming into Chicago. Bwch-wch-wch-wch-wch-wch, bwch-wch-wch-wch-wch-wch. Ooo-ooo.

Amy: See if you guys can guess this one. Bang. Splat. Thud.
Sheldon: How many trains have you been on?

Man: Tons. A box fell on my head at UPS six years ago. Now I just collect disability and ride trains.
Sheldon: Wow. Your life’s amazing.

Bernadette: Excuse me. You are at Valentine’s dinner with your girlfriend. Now get back over there and be with her.
Sheldon: You’re right. That was insensitive of me. I have to go back to my table now. You should join us.

Man: Okay, what was the best four-ten-four U.S. Locomotive ever built?
Sheldon: Trick question. There never was one.

Man: Or was there? 
Sheldon: What?

Man: In 1944, the Pacific Railroad built number 6131, which rearranged the drivers and cylinders, solving the problem of the Q-1, creating a duplex-drive four-four-six-four.
Sheldon: In what world is a four-four-six-four a four-ten-four? 

Man: Hold on to your conductor’s hat. You crank the second and third axles, creating a pair of internal connecting rods, and boom, four-ten-four. If you think about it, the Q-2 was like the four-ten-four America never made.
Sheldon: I may never stop thinking about it. Amy, what are the odds we run into this guy?

Man: You know, if you ask nicely, they’ll let you visit the engine room.
Sheldon: I never want this day to end.

Amy: It’s feeling like it never will.
Sheldon: Come on.

Man: You guys missed a pretty great time. 
Sheldon: The conductor and I have the same pocket watch. 

Man: It was crazy. 
Sheldon: Dare I say loco? Oh, and, Amy, guess what? The conductor said as soon as he gets off work, he can come back to the bed and breakfast and play his banjo for us.

Amy: Why are you still here?
Sheldon: Excuse me. I think you’re being a little rude.

Amy: I’m being rude? You’ve been rude to me this entire evening.
Sheldon: How is that possible? I’ve hardly spoken to you since we got on the train.

Man: I’m detecting a little friction between you two, and I don’t want to be a third rail. Get it?
Sheldon: I get it.

Amy: Leave.
Sheldon: What is your problem?

Amy: It’s Valentine’s Day. We’re supposed to be having a romantic weekend.
Sheldon: Oh, really? Because I remember you saying that this trip was going to be something we could both enjoy. Did you mean that, or were you just trying to trick me?

Amy: Fine, it’s true. I deserve romance, and I didn’t know how else to make it happen.
Sheldon: Well, if you want romance, then let’s have romance. Oh, look, there’s wine. Mmm. Grape juice that burns. Uh, now let’s gaze into each other’s eyes, hmm? You blinked. I win.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Let’s see. What’s next? Oh, kissing’s romantic.

Amy: That was nice.
Sheldon: Good. Um, the conductor said if I come back to the engine room, he’d show me how to bring the train through a crossing.

Amy: Okay, have fun.
Sheldon: Do you want to come with me?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Oh, hey. You’re back. How was your trip?
Sheldon: It was wonderful. 

Leonard: Great. What did you do?
Sheldon: I made a new friend who likes trains as much as I do, uh, I kissed Amy on the lips, and, uh, the conductor played his banjo for me. Good night.

Leonard: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I’m gonna need more details.
Sheldon: Oh, well, my new friend’s name was Eric. Um, Amy lips tasted like the brownie we had for dessert. Oh, and the banjo-playing conductor was missing a finger, but he made up for it with his can-do attitude.

Leonard: No, hang on. Hang on. Are all those things equal to you?
Sheldon: Hmm. It never occurred to me to pick a favourite.

Leonard: Well, give it a go.
Sheldon: I can’t answer that without collecting additional data.

Leonard: Additional data. You dog.
Sheldon: I’m not sure how listening to other nine-fingered banjo players makes me dog, but all right.

Bernadette: Guys, you’re being childish.
Sheldon: Yeah, she’s right. You’re grown men, the kind who are perfectly capable of growing your own moo-staches.

Leonard: Oh, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: You’ll get ’em next time.

Raj: Oh, sure, I sit on the floor for years, no one cares. The pretty white girl’s there ten seconds, and suddenly we’re all running to IKEA.
Sheldon: No one is running anywhere. We’re not getting a dining room table.

Penny: Yeah, you guys never use that space up there. Why not get a table?
Sheldon: Do you want the long answer or the short answer?

Howard: Hey, how come we never get that option?
Sheldon: Chaos theory suggests that even in a deterministic system, if the equations describing its behaviour are non-linear, a tiny change in the initial conditions can lead to a cataclysmic and unpredictable result.

Leonard: Hey, Penny and I are gonna go shop for a dining room table. You want to come with us?
Sheldon: You know, I’d love to, but, um, I’m too busy falling back in love with Windows 98.

Leonard: Seriously? You haven’t used this desk in years. The second I want to get rid of it, you’re up here working?
Sheldon: I can’t talk right now, I have several thousand updates to install.

Leonard: Are you really gonna sit here all day?
Sheldon: Think of me as Arthur Dent in Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, lying in front of the bulldozers to protect his home.

Leonard: If you’ll recall, the Vogon fleet blew up the Earth anyway.
Sheldon: It’s a made-up story, Leonard, I don’t even know why you’re talking about it.

Leonard: I’m putting all this stuff in storage. We don’t need any of it.
Sheldon: You, how can you say that? You show me one thing in here we can live without.

Leonard: Oh, hang on. Check your in-box.
Sheldon: Wait. Is this really worth it? We’ve lived together for years with nary an argument.

Leonard: Huh?
Sheldon: But we start talking about a table, and suddenly we’re at each other’s throats.

Leonard: Nary an argument? Nary?
Sheldon: Well, that means not one, or not any. Maybe instead of a table, you should buy a dictionary. Well, I don’t know if I won that, but at least he’s upset.

Leonard: Hey, all set. What do you think? There’s plenty of room for everybody, a view out the window.
Sheldon: My spot on the couch has a great view of a window. Sometimes I can see space battles through it. It’s called a TV.

Penny: Give it a chance, Sheldon, you might actually like it.
Sheldon: You’re absolutely right. Nope.

Penny: Well, you can’t say he didn’t give it a fair shot.
Sheldon: So, when can we get rid of it?

Leonard: We’re not.
Sheldon: What about the roommate agreement? It specifically states that any changes in furnishing have to be approved by the Furnishing Committee. Which only sits on alternate years. Yeah, and by the way, it sits over there.

Leonard: That.
Sheldon: Okay. I think we’ve found the problem here. It’s not the table at all. It’s you.

Leonard: Well, it’s always me, take one for the team.
Sheldon: I have spent years turning this lump of clay into an acceptable conduit for my will, and then you came along and reshaped him, with your newfangled ideas and your fancy genitals.

Penny: Okay, I have not tried to change Leonard. That’s just what happens in relationships. Look how much Amy’s changed you.
Sheldon: That’s not true.

Penny: Oh, please. When I first met you, you were incapable of touching another human being. Now you’re holding hands, you’re going on dates, you even made out with her on a train.
Sheldon: She told you?

Leonard: You’re too close to it, but Amy has had a huge impact on you.
Sheldon: You’re right. Without realizing it, I’ve allowed that woman to alter my personality.

Leonard: Mm, Sheldon, you didn’t have a personality, you just had some shows you liked.
Sheldon: No. No, I’ve changed. Like the frog who’s put in a pot of water that’s heated so gradually he doesn’t realize he’s boiling to death.

Leonard: Or you’re just a tall, annoying frog.
Sheldon: Excuse me. I have to break up with my girlfriend.

Penny: Oh, Sheldon, wait.
Sheldon: No. You’ve opened my eyes to the truth. Amy has made me a more affectionate, open-minded person. And that stops now.

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? I’ll get right to the point. I think we need to end this relationship, so just sign this with your finger, and, uh, please don’t cry on my iPad, I didn’t get AppleCare.

Amy: I’m not surprised you want to end the relationship. I’m a little surprised you didn’t get AppleCare. Anyway, enjoy your life. Where do I sign?
Sheldon: At the bottom. I must say, I’m relieved you’re not making more of a scene out of this.

Amy: Oh, I’ve already moved on. Besides, this breakup has nothing to do with me.
Sheldon: It doesn’t?

Amy: Of course not. This is just Leonard trying to take the focus off that dreadful table by sowing discord in our relationship. He’s manipulating you like he always does.
Sheldon: Wait, wait, now, hang on. You think he manipulates me?

Amy: All the time. And he knew that, as your girlfriend, I wasn’t gonna stand by and let him bring a table into your apartment. I mean, a table? Come on?
Sheldon: It is hideous.

Amy: Well, thankfully, I won’t have to see it, ’cause I won’t be your girlfriend anymore. Amy Farrah Fowler. Why, yes, I would like to take a survey.
Sheldon: Wait. You were really gonna stand by me against the dining room table?

Amy: Of course I was.
Sheldon: Wait. How do I know that you’re not manipulating me right now?

Amy: I think if I were manipulating you, you’d be smart enough to see it.
Sheldon: How do I know you’re not saying that as part of the manipulation?

Amy: I think you’d be smart enough to see that, too.
Sheldon: Okay. I’m sorry I gave you such a hard time, I just had to be sure.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Oh, hey. You guys didn’t break up.
Sheldon: No. Sorry to disappoint you, but Amy pointed out that you were only trying to manipulate me.

Amy: Which you also figured out by yourself.
Sheldon: Which I also figured out by myself.

Penny: Well, I’m glad you’re still together.
Sheldon: Yeah, okay, you can stop trying to make this about our relationship.

Amy: Which is stronger than ever.
Sheldon: Which is stronger than ever. This is about you trying to change my environment, which was perfect the way it was.

Howard: But it got the way it was through change. The-the-the spot that you love to sit in, that no one else can sit in, only exists because, despite your objections. I bought this couch. Me. So explain why that change was bad and this change was good.
Sheldon: Um.

Amy: You don’t need to explain yourself to him.
Sheldon: I don’t need to explain myself to you!

Amy: You’re sick of his nonsense and ready to move in with me.
Sheldon: Keep the table. We don’t use that space.

Leonard: So why are you trying to ruin it?
Sheldon: No, thanks. We’re fine. I mean, if you people want to eat at the table, then that’s what you should do. I like eating down here because this is how we’ve always done things. But if those days are gone, they’re gone. It just makes me sad.

Howard: You mean tings like moo-stache?
Sheldon: Well, isn’t this nice. Sometimes the baby wins.

Raj: Can we please talk about something other than my depressing love life?
Sheldon: How about Penny’s depressing acting career?

Bernadette: Serial Ape-ist? I thought you died in that.
Sheldon: She does. 42 minutes in.

Raj: While showering topless, 16 minutes after brief side butt during a pillow fight with her sorority sisters.
Sheldon: I have an eidetic memory. I don’t know what his problem is.

Penny: Okay, well, there are no shower scenes in this one. They just try to clone me from my corpse, but my DNA gets mixed with the ape’s DNA and I end up running around with giant gorilla hands and feet.
Sheldon: Am I missing something, or isn’t that the part she was born to play?

Amy: I think we’re gonna go.
Sheldon: Are you sure? We were making fun of failed careers. We didn’t get to tap the juicy vein that is Howard’s.

Howard: Hey, I work at the same university you do.
Sheldon: Yes, and Hawkeye’s in the Avengers, but no one ever says help, Hawkeye.

Leonard: No, no, no. This is not a fight. I was just excited that someone offered you a part and a little surprised that you’d rather sit at home and do nothing than take it. Now it’s a fight.
Sheldon: Well, with that sorted out, I’m happy to answer your question, Bernadette. Howard started it.

Howard: I didn’t do anything. I was just sitting here.
Sheldon: I wasn’t referring to this evening. Ten years ago, upon first seeing me, your husband claimed that I looked like C-3PO and Pee-wee Herman. And he called me C-3P-wee Herman.

Bernadette: That was ten years ago.
Sheldon: Nine years, 11 months and three weeks ago, he followed that up by replacing the slides for my lecture with photographs of nude fat women bending over.

Raj: I was there. It was funny.
Sheldon: In any event, that began a decade-long progression of insults, pranks and unwanted magazine subscriptions. To this day, I still get a monthly copy of Granny on Granny. Which, other than its surprisingly fun puzzle page, is complete filth.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Howard: Listen, I was thinking you and I could probably try to be better friends.
Sheldon: Really? I was thinking what we have now is a bit much.

Howard: Seriously, I was talking to Bernadette last night and she made some great points. You and I have known each other a long time, and I didn’t hear the rest ’cause she took her bra off.
Sheldon: Very well. How do you propose we move forward?

Howard: Uh, for starters, we could stop insulting each other.
Sheldon: That’s a great idea. And in the spirit of our new arrangement, I will mask my surprise that you came up with it.

Howard: Anyway, I got invited to do a little talk at NASA in Houston this weekend. They gave me two tickets. Bernadette can’t go. You want to come with me? You can visit your mom, and I’ll show you around the space centre.
Sheldon: I have one question. Is this a prank where we land in Houston and you’ve made up wanted posters that have my face with a moustache and a Spanish name and then I get arrested and deported to South America?

Howard: No.
Sheldon: I’m glad because I would not have seen that coming.

Scene: Penny’s car.
Sheldon: Thanks again for taking me to the pharmacy.

Penny: Oh, it’s no problem. Is everything okay?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m fine. It’s just some, uh, stomach medication for my trip. There’s the remote yet distinct possibility that I may end up in South America.

Penny: Remember the old days when I would’ve said something dumb like why? Uh, that doesn’t sound good.
Sheldon: Remember the old days when I used to point out that your check engine light was on?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Well, get ready to stroll down memory lane. Penny, your check engine…

Penny: Yeah, I know it’s on, Sheldon. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. I cannot afford this right now.
Sheldon: Maybe it’s just something minor. Ooh, good news, the light just went out.

Raj: Teams are fun.
Sheldon: Oh, in that case, I’d like to be partnered with my good friend Howard.

Penny: How? Unlike me, you have a job. I’m just gonna have to go back to being a waitress, like I will be for the rest of my life.
Sheldon: Leonard, would you wrap it up? We’re waiting on you.

Penny: I’m sorry, is the fact that my life’s falling apart interfering with your board game?
Sheldon: It is. You were wrong, friend Howard. She completely understood.

Howard: How do I know what you said? Damn you and your noise-cancelling breasts.
Sheldon: Hello.

Bernadette: You excited for Texas?
Sheldon: Oh, very much so.

Howard: It’s not every day you get to tour NASA with a real astronaut.
Sheldon: Oh, who’s the real astronaut?

Howard: Buzz Aldrin.
Sheldon: Oh. Yay.

Scene: An airplane. 
Sheldon: (Tap, tap, tap) Howard? (Tap, tap, tap) Howard? (Tap, tap, tap) Howard?

Howard: What now?
Sheldon: I have to go to the bathroom.

Howard: You just went to the bathroom.
Sheldon: But I didn’t use it because it didn’t seem safe. Despite all my e-mails, the toilet didn’t have a seatbelt.

Howard: Well, it still doesn’t.
Sheldon: I realize that, but safety concerns went out the window two apple juices ago.

Howard: Fine.
Sheldon: Why are you getting annoyed?

Howard: I’m trying to be a better friend, but you constantly say and do irritating things.
Sheldon: Like when?

Howard: When? How about in the car? I’m an astronaut, and you know it. You just don’t like admitting it, because you’re jealous.
Sheldon: Well, truth be told, as a child, I did dream of going to space. Those astronauts were my heroes. And when you got to go, it was hard for me.

Howard: Thank you.
Sheldon: Because it made me realize they’ll just send anyone up there. Aren’t you going to let me out?

Howard: No.
Sheldon: But I still need to use the bathroom.

Howard: Here you go. Be creative. What’s the matter? Scared of a little turbulence?
Sheldon: No, turbulence is just the equalization of diurnal temperature variations in the atmosphere. I’m not scared at all. Oh, apple juice, stay where you are.

Howard: Oh, this is nothing. I experienced way worse when I was plummeting back to Earth, apparently not being a real astronaut. Okay, that was a big one.
Sheldon: I take it back. I’m scared of turbulence!

Scene: The airplane.
Sheldon: I’m sorry for every mean thing I ever did or said to you.

Howard: I’m sorry, too. It’s all my fault.
Sheldon: If you weren’t my friend, there’d be a hole in my life.

Howard: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Kind of like when Firefly was cancelled. But not as big.

Howard: It’s over.
Sheldon: Yeah.

Howard: Should we stop holding hands now?
Sheldon: In a minute.

Scene: A hire car.
Sheldon: Thank you for my bobble head.

Howard: Thank you for not making fun of me during my speech.
Sheldon: It wasn’t easy. Was it Buzz?

Howard: We can’t show up to your mom’s empty-handed. We should bring something.
Sheldon: I already am. I’m bringing the gift of knowledge.

Howard: Oh, boy.
Sheldon: Despite what her Bible says, recent archaeological studies indicate that although camels are referenced in the Old Testament, they didn’t exist in the Middle East until hundreds of years later.

Howard: Okay, give me the flowers and pie.
Sheldon: But if we show up and you’re holding them, she’ll think they’re only from you.

Howard: They are only from me. You said the gift of you was enough.
Sheldon: Yes, but now that I’ve seen what the gift of me with flowers and pie looks like, there’s no going back. Boy, I can’t wait to see the look on her face. We’re leaving right now.

Howard: What’s wrong?
Sheldon: Nothing.

Howard: What? Sheldon, tell me what’s going on.
Sheldon: I saw my mommy with a naked man and she was trying to be a mommy again.

Howard: You ready to talk about it?
Sheldon: I’m not nearly drunk enough. Okay. Do you have any idea what it’s like to see your mother ravaging someone?

Howard: Does a brisket count? I’m sorry, buddy, that’s rough. But didn’t she know we were coming?
Sheldon: No. I wanted to surprise her. What am I supposed to say to her after something like this?

Howard: Well, did she see you in the window?
Sheldon: No.

Howard: Then don’t say anything.
Sheldon: I have to. How can we ever hope to have a healthy relationship if I don’t tell her how disappointed I am, and that I’ll never forgive her?

Howard: Well, don’t do it on the phone.
Sheldon: No, I’m just going to tell her I’m coming so she can give that good time Charlie the heave-ho.

Howard: That’s some tough talk, I may need to cut you off.
Sheldon: Yeah, maybe you better, I took a pretty big sip.

Howard: Look, she’s a grown woman. And, and your dad’s been gone a long time. Maybe this is none of your business.
Sheldon: I beg to differ. I used to live in those genitals. And if someone wants to move into my old room, I should at least get a vote.

Scene: Sheldon’s childhood home.
Sheldon: Okay, let’s do this.

Howard: Good luck.
Sheldon: You, aren’t you gonna come with me?

Howard: While you confront your mother about her sex life? I’d rather go back to that bar in ass-less chaps.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Mother? (Knock, knock, knock) Mother? (Knock, knock, knock) Mother?

Mrs Cooper: Shelly, I’m so glad you’re here.
Sheldon: I saw you having naked sex.

Mrs Cooper: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: Earlier, I came here to surprise you. I looked in the window and I saw you with a man.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, Shelly, I’m so sorry. Come in. Um, maybe we should sit down and talk about this.
Sheldon: Can you recommend a surface you haven’t had coitus on?

Mrs Cooper: That’s not funny. Maybe we should sit at the table. Well, I’m sure that, uh, you have a lot of questions.
Sheldon: Who was he?

Mrs Cooper: His name is Ron. I met him at my prayer group.
Sheldon: How long have you been involved with him?

Mrs Cooper: A few months.
Sheldon: And of those few months, how long have you been a demented sex pervert?

Mrs Cooper: That is no way to speak to your mother.
Sheldon: Perhaps not. But it is a way to speak to a woman who quoted the Bible to me my whole life, and then desecrates one of Ethan Allen’s finest sofas.

Mrs Cooper: I will give you one opportunity, young man, to apologize.
Sheldon: Or what?

Mrs Cooper: Or I will send you to your room.
Sheldon: That’s ridiculous. I am a grown man. I am a professional scientist. And I currently occupy the moral high ground.

Mrs Cooper: Go to your room.
Sheldon: But I occupy the moral high ground.

Mrs Cooper: Go to your room.
Sheldon: But I’m a professional scientist.

Mrs: Go to your room!
Sheldon: I’m a grown man.

Howard: Hey, can I come in?
Sheldon: Apparently any man is welcome in this house. Why not you? I thought you were waiting in the car.

Howard: That was an hour ago, Sheldon. A Jew sits in front of a house in Texas that long, For Sale signs start to go up. I take it things didn’t go smoothly with your mom.
Sheldon: No. I’m not sure how we’re going to get past this.

Howard: You know, I, I sort of went through something like this myself.
Sheldon: Howard, we’ve all seen your mother naked. That woman needs to learn how to tie a robe.

Howard: I’m talking about when my mom started seeing someone a couple of years after my dad left.
Sheldon: I didn’t know she did.

Howard: Yeah, she was dating this guy, and I was kind of a jerk to her about it.
Sheldon: What did you do?

Howard: Well, let’s just say it was the most vicious bar mitzvah speech in the history of Temple Beth El. Anyway, she broke up with him. And she’s basically been alone ever since. She never said it, but I always felt I was the reason why.
Sheldon: I’m sorry. Although, based on your story, you absolutely were the reason why.

Howard: All I’m saying is you might not want to get in the way of your mom’s happiness.
Sheldon: You may have a point. I love my mother. Even if she fornicates like a demonic weasel.

Scene: Mrs Cooper’s living room.
Sheldon: Hello.

Mrs Cooper: Hello. Are you ready to discuss this calmly, like adults?
Sheldon: I am.

Mrs Cooper: Shelly, I’m sorry that you saw what you saw. I know that this is hard for you.
Sheldon: I think what most upsets me about it, Mother, is the hypocrisy. Doesn’t this contradict all the religious rules you’ve been espousing your whole life?

Mrs Cooper: You’re right, it does, and it’s something that I’m struggling with these days.
Sheldon: Then why are you doing it?

Mrs Cooper: Because I’m not perfect, Shelly. And that man’s booty is.
Sheldon: Well, this is confusing for me. But I don’t want to stand in the way of your happiness. So, I’ll condemn you internally while maintaining an outward appearance of acceptance.

Mrs Cooper: That is very Christian of you.
Sheldon: Mother, if you’re going to conduct your life in this fashion, then I should let you know that the world has changed since you were a young woman. You know, it’s not all sock hops, soda jerks and segregation anymore.

Mrs Cooper: How old do you think I am?
Sheldon: My point is that you’re going to need to be careful. You used to be protected by your pre-Enlightenment mythology, but now you’re going to need a stronger friend named latex.

Mrs Cooper: Are you having the sex talk with me?
Sheldon: Well, someone has to.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, dear Lord.
Sheldon: No, don’t look to Him. He’s mad at you right now.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Boy, do I have to urinate.

Leonard: If only there were a solution to that.
Sheldon: Seriously. I feel like I’ve got a fish tank in my pelvis.

Leonard: So go to the bathroom.
Sheldon: I can’t.

Leonard: Why not?
Sheldon: Because I’m trying to decide between getting an Xbox One or a PS4. Oh, pee, why’d I say that?

Leonard: Forgive me for asking a stupid question, but why are you being stupid?
Sheldon: I’m not being stupid. I’m employing the work of Dutch researcher, Mirjam Tuk, who found that people with full bladders make better decisions.

Penny: I know. Next time I get pulled over for a speeding ticket, here come the waterworks.
Sheldon: Here come the waterworks.

Scene: Amy’s apartment.
Sheldon: So, first there was PlayStation, aka PS1, then PS2, PS3 and now PS4. And that makes sense. You’d think after Xbox, there’d be Xbox 2. But no, next came Xbox 360. Hmm? And now, after 360, comes Xbox One. Why one? Maybe that’s how many seconds of thought they put into naming it.

Amy: Can you get the butter, please?
Sheldon: You know, however, with the Xbox One, I can control my entire entertainment system using voice commands. Up until now, I’ve had to use Leonard.

Amy: Then get the other one. Pass the butter.
Sheldon: Get? Hang on. I don’t feel like you’re taking this dilemma seriously.

Amy: Fine, Sheldon. You have my undivided attention.
Sheldon: Okay, now, the PS4 is more angular and sleek-looking.

Amy: No way.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, it’s true. But the larger size of the Xbox One may keep it from overheating.

Amy: Well, you wouldn’t want your gaming system to overheat.
Sheldon: No, see? Well, you absolutely would not. And furthermore, the Xbox One now comes with a Kinect included.

Amy: Included?
Sheldon: Yes. Not sold separately. Although the PS4 uses cool new GDDR5 RAM, while the Xbox One is still using the conventional DDR3 memory.

Amy: Why would they still be using DDR3? Are they nuts?
Sheldon: See? That’s what I thought. But then they go and throw in an ESRAM buffer.

Amy: Whoa, whoa. Wait a second. Who’s they?
Sheldon: Xbox.

Amy: You’re kidding.
Sheldon: No, I am not. And this ESRAM buffer should totally bridge the 100-gigabit-per-second bandwidth gap between the two RAM types.

Scene: Amy’s apartment. 
Sheldon: Thank you again for dinner.

Amy: You’re welcome.
Sheldon: Good night.

Amy: Uh, it’s date night. Aren’t you, uh, forgetting something?
Sheldon: Oh, of course. (They kiss) Did I mention the PS4 controllers light up?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Well, they do.

Leonard: Okay, that’s enough.
Sheldon: Quick poll, PS4 or Xbox One? Raj?

Raj: Uh, Xbox One.
Sheldon: Penny?

Penny: Huh?
Sheldon: Leonard?

Leonard: PS4.
Sheldon: Wolowitz?

Howard: Both great.
Sheldon: Bernadette?

Bernadette: I like the Wii.
Sheldon: Thanks, Grandma.

Amy: I’m proud of you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You know, I’m proud of me, too. I’ve done all my research, I conducted an informal poll, and I’ve arrived at the rock-solid certainty I’ve made the right choice.

Amy: Well, that’s got to be a good feeling.
Sheldon: Oh, it is. Although.

Amy: Oh, crap.
Sheldon: I had the same feeling when I made my dad buy a Betamax instead of a VHS.

Amy: You were just a little kid.
Sheldon: Yeah, a little kid who picked the wrong format to record The MacNeil/Lehrer Report. Now I also was certain that HD DVD would win out over Blu-ray.

Amy: How old were you then?
Sheldon: Old enough to know better. You know, and now that I think about it, I stood in front of a case of iPods and I bought a Zune.

Amy: What’s a Zune?
Sheldon: Yeah, exactly. It’s an MP3 player brought to us by the makers of Xbox.

Amy: No, what are you doing? No, no, pick that back up. You know it’s good. You did the research.
Sheldon: But what if I’m wrong?

Amy: You know what? How about I buy it for you? How about I buy you both?
Sheldon: You know I only have one slot available in my entertainment centre.

Amy: Then I’ll buy you a new entertainment centre.
Sheldon: Well, yeah, okay, sure. But which one?

Amy: How about this? I’ve heard that if you flip a coin, it will tell you how you actually feel. Because you’ll either be disappointed or excited by the outcome.
Sheldon: Interesting.

Amy: So, heads it’s PS4, tails it’s Xbox One.
Sheldon: All right, I’ll try.

Amy: What is it?
Sheldon: A quarter.

Scene: The electrical store.
Sheldon: On the one hand, the Xbox One has a better camera, but the PS4 has a removable hard drive. Thoughts?

Store assistant: Oh, I’m sorry, guys, but the store closed five minutes ago.
Sheldon: But I haven’t decided yet.

Amy: Let’s get you some food. You, You’ll feel better after you eat.
Sheldon: Okay.

Amy: What-what do you want, like, Thai food? A burger?
Sheldon: I don’t know. Hey, look, a quarter.

Leonard: What do you think about it, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Meh.

Raj: Are you kidding me? This may be the biggest scientific breakthrough of our lifetime. How can you, as a theoretical physicist, not care about this?
Sheldon: Maybe it’s because I’m not an elitist. What I’d like to know is, how does this gravity wave breakthrough help the man on the street? You know? Who’s looking out for Joe six-pack and all his quantum physics concerns?

Leonard: Oh, my God, you’re jealous.
Sheldon: Why would I be jealous?

Leonard: Oh, I don’t know. Maybe because the origin of the universe just got proven, the Higgs field just got proven, and you’ve been working on string theory for the last 20 years and you’re no closer to proving it than when you started.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, I’ve had a lot on my plate. We happen to live in a golden age of television.

Barry: Excuse me, fewwas. Sowwy for eavesdwopping, but there actually was some big stwing theowy news today out of the Hadwon Cowwider.
Sheldon: Really? Did they find evidence to support extra dimensions or supersymmetry?

Barry: No, but they did find evidence that you’ll bewieve anything.
Sheldon: Why would you do that? You’re a string theorist as well.

Barry: Incowwect. I am a stwing pwagmatist. I say I’m gonna pwove something that cannot be pwoved, I appwy for gwant money, and then I spend it on wiquor and bwoads. Water.
Sheldon: Do you think he’s right? Am I wasting my life on a theory that can never be proven?

Penny: Hey, you’re up early.
Sheldon: I couldn’t sleep.

Penny: I told you those Walking Dead pillowcases were a bad idea.
Sheldon: No, that’s not it.

Penny: Is something bothering you?
Sheldon: Yes, but you wouldn’t understand.

Penny: Oh, come on, try me.
Sheldon: All right. I’ve devoted the prime of my life to string theory and its quest for the compactification of extra dimensions. I’ve got nothing to show for it, and I feel like a fool.

Penny: Okay. I get it. I mean, not all the jibberjabber in the middle, but I know what it’s like to put your heart and soul into something and get nothing out of it.
Sheldon: You mean your acting career?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Your relationship with Leonard?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Your failed attempt to go back to college?

Penny: No. I’m saying you and string theory sound like a relationship, and I know what it’s like to be in one and realize it’s never gonna turn out the way you want.
Sheldon: I said Leonard, you said no.

Penny: I’m talking about other guys.
Sheldon: Okay. Well, what do you do?

Penny: You have to have the courage to end the relationship. You know? Break it off, shake hands, walk away.
Sheldon: I don’t know if I can do that.

Leonard: Penny, have you seen my good inhaler?
Sheldon: Break it off, shake hands, walk away.

Howard: She is. But I like that attitude.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, is anybody interested in my old string theory books?

Raj: You’re really going to do this?
Sheldon: I am. Yeah, Penny pointed out that what I’m going through is essentially a breakup. And according to Cosmopolitan magazine, one of the most effective techniques for moving on is to get rid of all reminders of the relationship.

Howard: You’re reading Cosmo?
Sheldon: Yes. As it turns out, there’s an article on how to get over a breakup in literally every issue. Anyway, it suggests that I set these on fire, but the smell of burning books reminds me of church picnics in East Texas.

Howard: What’s this?
Sheldon: Oh, that’s just a doodle of a hyperelliptic Riemann surface.

Leonard: Oh, yeah. Wasn’t that the basis of your postdoc fellowship?
Sheldon: It was. This seemed so elegant at the time, but now I realize I was just a simple country boy seduced by a big city theory with variables in all the right places.

Raj: It’s going to be okay.
Sheldon: I know. As hard as this is, I have to move on. I can’t keep postulating multidimensional entities and get nothing in return. I have needs, too.

Leonard: Are you sure you want to do this?
Sheldon: The magazine articles suggest that one of the ways to get over a breakup is a new look.

Penny (treating Sheldon as a ventriloquist doll): Oh my God, I do look like that.
Sheldon: You stop it.

Penny: So, how do you want me to cut it?
Sheldon: Oh, how about Bill Gates meets Nikola Tesla?

Penny: Or I don’t cut it and maybe just style it a little.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m in your hands. Do a good job and I’ll tell you Cosmo’s ten dynamite tips to enjoy your PMS.

Leonard: That doesn’t work any more. He just thinks I’m taking him to the doctor. So, now that you’re no longer invested in string theory, what are you gonna pursue?
Sheldon: Oh, there are so many exciting areas. Black holes, dark matter.

Penny: Oh, Leonard was telling me about dark matter, but I didn’t really understand it.
Sheldon: Don’t feel bad. Neither does he.

Penny: Okay, what do you think?
Sheldon: Have you ever even seen a picture of Tesla?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: I suppose I could see myself in a scientific boy band. Of course, I’d be the dreamy one and the smart one.

Amy: Yeah, it’s cute. That’s the problem. I don’t need other girls to see him walking around like sex on a stick.
Sheldon: She’s right. I’m too hot.

Amy: Sheldon, your food’s getting cold. What are you doing?
Sheldon: Oh, looking through my textbooks for a new field of inquiry. Why do we have a geology book? Leonard, did you throw a children’s party while I was in Texas?

Penny: Wait. What’s wrong with geology?
Sheldon: Let me put this in a way you’ll understand, Penny. You remember how you explained to me that the Kardashians aren’t real celebrities? Well, geology is the Kardashians of science.

Sheldon: Have you considered studying standard model physics?
Sheldon: You want me to give up string theory for something that’s less advanced? You know, why don’t you break up with Penny and start dating a brown bear?

Amy: Maybe you could make your new field of study the calculation of nuclear matrix elements.
Sheldon: Oh, please. If I wanted to take up a fad, I’d get a tramp stamp.

Leonard: What about loop quantum gravity?
Sheldon: Oh, Duchess, look at me. My quantum gravity’s positively loopy.

Penny: Sheldon, have you ever considered not rushing into something new? I mean, why don’t you take your time, enjoy your freedom? Maybe something new to study will find you.
Sheldon: That’s actually not bad advice. You know, I didn’t seek out string theory. It just hit me over the head one day.

Amy: How does that happen?
Sheldon: A bully chased me through the school library and hit me over the head with the biggest book he could find.

Penny: Okay, how about we toast your newfound freedom?
Sheldon: Ah, normally I refrain from alcohol, but since my cerebral cortex is twiddling its proverbial thumbs, why not soak it in grape juice that’s been predigested by a fungus?

Amy: Come on, let’s get you to bed. You’ve had a lot to drink.
Sheldon: No more than Penny.

Amy: That’s what I’m saying.
Sheldon: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. (Knock, knock, knock) Empty room. (Knock, knock, knock) Empty room. (Knock, knock, knock) Empty room. If somebody says come in, I’m gonna freak out.

Scene: Sheldon, waking up in bed next to a Geology book.
Sheldon: Oh, no. What have I done?

Leonard: How you feeling?
Sheldon: Not so good.

Leonard: Are you gonna introduce me to your friend?
Sheldon: It’s not my friend. Nothing happened.

Leonard: I don’t know. I heard you reading pretty loud last night.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord. Where’s Amy?

Leonard: After she put you to bed, she went home.
Sheldon: Oh. I should call her and apologize. Oh, no.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Apparently, I called Stephen Hawking last night.

Howard: You’re awful quiet. Everything okay?
Sheldon: Not really. I had a bit of an embarrassing evening.

Howard: Ugh. Me, too. What happened?
Sheldon: I drank alcohol and may have left an unfortunate voice mail for Stephen Hawking.

Howard: I wouldn’t worry about it. He’s got a pretty good sense of humour.
Sheldon: Oh, I hope so. What happened to you last night?

Howard: Oh, well, turns out I’d already met the girl Raj is seeing when I did a number on her bathroom. And that number was two.
Sheldon: Well, you know, I’ve always been a fan of a story told by Attar of Nishapur, about a king who assembled a group of wise men to create a ring that would make him happy when he was sad. And that ring was inscribed with the phrase, this too shall pass.

Barry: Whatever you say, Cwogziwwa.
Sheldon: Clogzilla. That’s pretty funny. I don’t think that’s gonna pass.

Penny: Oh, and there’s not even a bathroom on set. I have to go to the gas station across the street. I mean, I was dressed like half an ape and still not even close to the most disgusting person in there.
Sheldon: Leonard, I could use your assistance.

Leonard: Sure. What’s up?
Sheldon: Well, now that I’ve given up string theory, I’m struggling to find my next area of focus. So, in your professional opinion, which of these areas do you think is the most promising?

Leonard: Huh, well, I think there’s some really innovative stuff going on in dark matter.
Sheldon: That’s helpful. Okay. Of these four areas…

Penny: Leonard, what did we say about being a gullible weenie?
Sheldon: It is just so frustrating.

Penny: Yeah. Sounds like me. Come on, Sheldon. What do you say?
Sheldon: All right. I officially reinstate Anything Can Happen Thursday.

Leonard: Great, what do you want to do?
Sheldon: I don’t know. What do you want to do?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hmm, what can we do that’s fun?

Penny: What can we do that’s free?
Sheldon: Oh, got it. We order a pizza.

Penny: Are you kidding? That’s what you always do. Think harder.
Sheldon: You’re right. You’re right. Got it. We order calzones, cut them open, eat them like pizza. All right, all right, I’ll shake the brain bush one more time, see what falls out. Got it. There’s a live-action role-playing group that meets every Thursday night in Griffith Park and re-enacts battles from Lord of the Rings.

Leonard: You know what? Why don’t we just ease into this. Let, let’s go for a walk and, and, and see if we find a new restaurant.
Sheldon: Any chance that restaurant is near Griffith Park?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: All right.

Penny: No. Bernadette’s working late.
Sheldon: Amy’s sick.

Leonard: Aw. What’s wrong with her?
Sheldon: Well, she talks a lot. She always wants to hold hands.

Leonard: That’s not what I meant.
Sheldon: Well, if you were referring to her illness your question should have been, what ails her?

Leonard: What ails her?
Sheldon: Oh. Who knows?

Scene: The street. 
Sheldon: So, we’re just randomly choosing a restaurant without researching it online?

Penny: Yep.
Sheldon: Great. You know, this is how Anything Can Happen Thursday turns into It Won’t Stop Coming Up Friday.

Leonard: Hey, how about that Asian fusion place?
Sheldon: Fusion and Asians? I’m trying not to think about science.

Penny: What the hell? What? She’s not working late.
Sheldon: And Amy doesn’t look sick.

Penny: Why would they lie to us?
Sheldon: That’s a good question. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy and Bernadette. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy and Bernadette. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy and Bernadette. Why did you lie to us?

Penny: You’re not working late. Why did you lie to me?
Sheldon: And Amy, you told me you were sick, but you look just as pale and tired as always.

Penny: Well you know what? Maybe I need a break from all of you. Come on, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Where are we going?

Penny: We’re gonna have Anything Can Happen Thursday, you’re gonna tell me all about your science stuff and I’m gonna complain about my movie, and we’re gonna support each other because that’s what friends do.
Sheldon: Okay. ‘Cause if I had to pick now, I’d probably go with dark matter because…

Penny: What’s wrong?
Sheldon: I don’t understand my food. Chinese noodles with Korean barbecue in a taco.

Penny: It’s fusion.
Sheldon: My mother would lock her car doors if she had to drive through this hodgepodge of ethnicity.

Penny: Think I’ve been complaining too much about the movie?
Sheldon: Not at all.

Penny: Thank you.
Sheldon: But to be fair, when you talk, most of what you say sounds like, wah, wah, wah, clothes, wah, wah, wah.

Penny: Hey, I don’t understand why you’re not upset with Amy.
Sheldon: I am. So much so that I’m gonna bring her here for dinner on our next date night.

Penny: Thank you. Hey, maybe the answer to your career question is in one of these.
Sheldon: Penny, there’s only one cookie with something in the middle that solves life’s problems, and that’s an Oreo. Or a Nutter Butter, if you’re in a pinch.

Penny: Come on, open it. I bet it says something great.
Sheldon: This is Asian fusion. For all you know, there’s a tiny Chihuahua in here.

Penny: Fine, I’ll go. Hmm. People turn to you for guidance and wisdom. Yeah, that’s a good one.
Sheldon: No, it’s not.

Penny: How is that not good?
Sheldon: Turn to you for wisdom? Clearly, that cookie is mocking you. You’d never hear that kind of sass from a Nutter Butter.

Penny: Uh, since you’re paying for dinner, I’ll let that slide. Open yours.
Sheldon: Have you ever paid for a meal?

Penny: Not with money. Read.
Sheldon: Your warm and fun-loving nature delights those around you.

Penny: Oh, I think I see our next stop.
Sheldon: You can’t be serious. If I wanted to waste my time on nonsense, I’d follow Leonard on Instagram.

Penny: No, come on, tonight we are trying new things.
Sheldon: Oh. That’s a lot of incense. Or someone set a hippie on fire.

Scene: The psychic shop.
Sheldon: I don’t mean to be rude or discourteous, but before we begin, I’d just like to say there is absolutely no scientific evidence to support clairvoyance of any kind. Which means, and again, no insult intended, that you’re a fraud, your profession is a swindle, and, uh, your livelihood is dependent on the gullibility of stupid people. Again, no offence.

Penny: All right, Sheldon, just ask your question.
Sheldon: Okay, I just did. What was it?

Penny: Oh, for God’s sake. Look, he’s a physicist who’s trying to figure out what his next field of study should be.
Sheldon: For your information, I was asking her about the next Star Trek movie.

Psychic: All right, why don’t we begin? Your spirit guides are telling me that there’s a woman in your life you’re having problems with.
Sheldon: That’s an easy guess. I’m clearly an annoying person and have problems with both genders.

Penny: Yes, yes, your spirit guides are on fire.
Sheldon: The majority of people have dark hair. Even you, at one time.

Psychic: Does she work in a similar field to you?
Sheldon: Ha. The opposite. She’s a neurobiologist, and I’m a theoretical physicist. My spirit guides can go suck an egg.

Psychic: Exactly. Personally and professionally. Everything will fall into place once you commit to her.
Sheldon: You know what this is? Yeah, and I reserve this word for those rare instances when it’s truly deserved. This is malarkey.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello. I didn’t expect you this evening.

Amy: Well, I was just feeling so bad about lying to you the other night, I wanted to make it up to you.
Sheldon: And how do you propose to do that? (Amy takes off coat and is dressed as a Catholic schoolgirl) Unless you have Gravity on Blu-ray under that skirt, I don’t know where you’re going with this.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, Star Wars Day is rapidly approaching. We should finalize our plans.

Leonard: Uh, well, it’s not May the fifth, and it’s not May the third. It’s May the fourth.
Sheldon: Get it?

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom. There is a knock on the door.
Sheldon: Come in.

Leonard: Hey, you got a second?
Sheldon: Yes. Actually, I’m glad you’re here. I’m working on the Star Wars Day schedule. Now, I have a window built in after Phantom Menace for complaining, but I’m worried an hour won’t be enough time.

Leonard: Sheldon, I’ve got some bad news.
Sheldon: What is it?

Leonard: I just read online that Arthur Jeffries passed away.
Sheldon: Professor Proton is dead?

Leonard: Sorry, buddy.
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Leonard: Comforting you?
Sheldon: Your heart might be in the right place, but your head, chest and arms certainly aren’t.

Leonard: Anyway, the, the funeral’s on Sunday.
Sheldon: But, that’s Star Wars Day.

Leonard: Yeah, um, of all the things about this that are sad, that might not be number one. You okay? I know he meant a lot to you.
Sheldon: I’m fine.

Amy: Watching your old friend?
Sheldon: Hmm. Yes. Look at him, Amy. It’s such a shame. Struck down in the prime of my life.

Amy: Do you want me to go to the funeral with you?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m not going to the funeral.

Amy: Why not?
Sheldon: All those people blowing their noses. You can’t tell the sick from the sad. Mm. I’ll be at home celebrating Star Wars Day, as planned.

Amy: Are you sure you don’t want to go say good-bye?
Sheldon: Amy, mourning the inevitable is a complete waste of time.

Amy: And watching a bunch of goofy space movies you’ve seen hundreds of times isn’t?
Sheldon: If we were in a physical relationship, you just lost sex tonight.

Raj: Hey, uh, Sheldon, you want anything?
Sheldon: Uh, no, thank you.

Howard: You’re being so quiet. Are you upset or are you just rebooting?
Sheldon: I’m fine.

Penny: Sweetie, are you sure you don’t want to come with us to the funeral?
Sheldon: Oh, I appreciate the offer, but Arthur is gone and there’s nothing I can do about it. When Darth Vader struck down Obi-Wan, did Luke cry like a baby and go to his funeral?

Penny: No, he blew up the Death Star. Why do I know this?
Sheldon: Arthur Jeffries was a scientist. I’m sure he didn’t care about silly superstitions like funerals. You know, if he were here, I think he’d say enjoy Star Wars Day.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Okay, here we go. Episode I: The Phantom Menace.

Howard: Since we all agree Episode I isn’t our favourite, maybe we just skip it this time.
Sheldon: Howard, I think you of all people should avoid espousing the principle that if something is not our favourite we should just get rid of it.

Howard: Okay, so you’d lose most of Jar Jar, all the trade route talk and the boring senate hearings, which are like watching C-SPAN with monsters.
Sheldon: Get rid of the trade route part? Then how would Palpatine get Chancellor Valorum kicked out of office? How would he get himself elected? How? Can we get through one holiday without you saying something ridiculous?

Raj: It was just a suggestion.
Sheldon: Well, you know what else was just a suggestion? Why don’t we change the Raisin Bran box? Hmm? And you know who got hurt by that? Every single person who eats breakfast.

Scene: Sheldon, dreaming he is in the living room of the apartment on his laptop.
Sheldon: Look at Arthur, cracking up at a joke I told him. I’ll never hear that laugh again.

Arthur: You never heard it that time.
Sheldon: Arthur. I thought you were dead.

Arthur: I am. Oh, it, it’s fantastic. I mean this, this is the longest that I’ve gone without running into a men’s room in, in, in years.
Sheldon: Why are you here?

Arthur: I don’t know. I was, I was hoping I was going to haunt my ex-wife.
Sheldon: I know why. You’ve come to me because you’re my Obi-Wan.

Arthur: I’m, I’m not, I’m not familiar with that. Is, is, is that an, an Internet?
Sheldon: Wow. Uh, you’re dead, so I’m going to let that slide. Obi-Wan Kenobi is a character from Star Wars. After his physical demise, he comes to Luke Skywalker as his mentor in spirit form.

Arthur: Well, that, that clears that up.
Sheldon: You must be here to give me advice.

Arthur: Well, this, this is weird. Most, most of my robes open in, in the back.
Sheldon: Those are your Jedi robes.

Arthur: Oh, wait. What, what, what is, what is this?
Sheldon: Be careful with that.

Arthur: Where, where, where are we?
Sheldon: This is the swampland of Dagobah. It’s where Luke was trained in the ways of the Jedi.

Arthur: Oh. Too bad. I thought it was Florida.
Sheldon: When Obi-Wan came to Luke on this very spot, he gave him all sorts of helpful advice. So, um, what do you got for me?

Arthur: Um, always, get, get a prenup.
Sheldon: That’s it? I thought there’d be more of a reason why you’re here.

Arthur: Well, why, why do you think I’m here?
Sheldon: I suppose it has something to do with your recent passing.

Arthur: Is, is this the, the first time you’ve lost, you know, someone close to you?
Sheldon: Oh, no. No. I’ve already had to say good-bye to 11 Dr. Whos.

Arthur: Yeah, I’ve, I’ve outlived a few of my doctors, too.
Sheldon: Of course, my grandfather died when I was five. My father died when I was 14.

Arthur: I’m, I’m sorry about that.
Sheldon: And now you’re gone, too. It’s like all the men I’ve looked up to have gone away.

Arthur: Well, you know, it’s, it’s okay to, to be sad about them. Just, just make sure, you know, you appreciate those who, who are still there for you.
Sheldon: But I do appreciate them.

Leonard: Hey, buddy. Heard you’re having a rough day. You all right?
Sheldon: I’m okay. How was the funeral?

Leonard: It was nice, you know. A lot of people showed up, told some great stories about him. Did you know that Arthur’s son is a high school sci…? (Sheldon hugs him) Hey, the guys are about to start Jedi. You want to go watch?
Sheldon: I do. After I make them go back and watch one through five first.

Leonard: Sheldon, that, that’ll take us all night.
Sheldon: That’s true. Oh, it’s a good thing I had a nap.

Bernadette: Happy Star Wars Day.
Sheldon: Wow. A Death Star cake.

Scene: The same, everyone is falling asleep.
Sheldon: You’re back.

Arthur: Yeah, apparently, um, I’m here whenever, when, whenever you need me.
Sheldon: That’s nice.

Arthur: May, maybe for you.
Sheldon: Why do I need you now?

Arthur: Well, as near as I could tell, you, you fell asleep watching Star Wars, and now you’re, you’re dreaming you’re watching Star Wars.
Sheldon: So?

Arthur: I mean, don’t, don’t you see a problem there? I mean, how, how you’re spending your limited time on Earth?
Sheldon: Not at all.

Amy: Should we do something for her?
Sheldon: I know. Let’s go see the new Spider-Man movie.

Amy: Sheldon, we’re talking about your friend’s mother. She got hurt.
Sheldon: I thought that subject had run its course, so I changed it. It’s called reading the room, Amy.

Leonard: I don’t know. The bisexual gorilla go-go dancer in Schindler’s List is tough to beat.
Sheldon: Ah, very good. Because a gorilla go-go dancer of any sexual preference would be out of place in a film about the Holocaust.

Leonard: It only gets funnier when you explain it, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I know.

Scene: A cinema.
Sheldon: Thanks for coming with me.

Raj: Thanks for inviting me after everyone else said no. Aren’t you gonna get 3-D glasses?
Sheldon: I brought my own. No sense in risking bridge-of-nose herpes.

Raj: Is that a real thing?
Sheldon: Well, until they invent nose condoms, I’m not finding out.

Raj: Uh, this is my friend, Sheldon. Sheldon, this is Emily.
Sheldon: Oh, yes, you’re the dermatologist. I went for a walk yesterday without sunscreen. Do you see anything on my forehead that I should be concerned about?

Raj: Yeah, okay.
Sheldon: That was awkward, right?

Raj: Uh-huh.
Sheldon: Is it because she’s dating you but was out with that other fellow?

Raj: Yes.
Sheldon: Good. I thought she saw something on my forehead.

Raj: Thanks for skipping the movie. I couldn’t sit in that theatre for two hours wondering about Emily and that guy.
Sheldon: Oh, quite all right. After my forehead melanoma scare I’ve learned not to sweat the small stuff. Well, sorry, I don’t have all the ingredients to make chai tea.

Raj: You don’t have to make me anything.
Sheldon: No, I do. You’re upset about Emily and you’re Indian. I need to make you chai tea. Now, I have all the ingredients except cardamom seeds. Do you happen to have any on you?

Raj: Sorry, I left them in my turban.
Sheldon: Oh, I’ll make English breakfast tea. They destroyed your culture. That’s close enough. You know, I’m curious, why are you so upset about seeing Emily with another man?

Raj: Wouldn’t you be upset if you saw Amy out with someone else?
Sheldon: Can’t happen. We have an ironclad relationship agreement which precludes her from physical contact with anyone other than me.

Raj: But you don’t have sex with her, either.
Sheldon: Slick, huh?

Raj: To be truthful, Emily and I haven’t dated that long, and we never agreed to be exclusive to each other.
Sheldon: Have you had intercourse?

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Well, stick to your guns. There will be a lot of pressure.

Raj: I don’t understand it. I’m a nice guy, I have a great job, I’m well-educated, come from a good family. Why don’t women want to be with me?
Sheldon: An interesting question. Well, good night.

Raj: What? Don’t send me home. I can’t be alone right now.
Sheldon: That’s your problem. You can’t be alone.

Raj: What do you mean?
Sheldon: How many women have you had dates with?

Raj: Eleven.
Sheldon: How many of those women did you think would become your perfect companion?

Raj: Eleven. Wait. Do I count the 200-pound Sailor Moon girl that Howard and I had a threesome with at Comic Con?
Sheldon: Sure.

Raj: I’ll stick with eleven. She liked Howard better.
Sheldon: Well, now do you see the problem?

Raj: Maybe. I, I don’t know.It’s late, I should, I should go. Look, I do get what you’re saying. Instead of desperately clinging to any woman who will go out with me, I need to work on my fear of being alone.
Sheldon: I was trying to suggest chemical castration, but it’s my bedtime, so whatever gets you out the door. Good night.

Bernadette: She’s just so impossible, they keep quitting.
Sheldon: So, who’s watching her now?

Leonard: Hey, buddy.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: You okay?
Sheldon: I just got called into President Siebert’s office. The university won’t let me switch my field of study to inflationary cosmology. They’re forcing me to continue with string theory.

Howard: Why?
Sheldon: He said it’s why they hired me, it’s, it’s what my grant was designated for, and that everybody has to do things they don’t want to do. He then gave an example of something he had to do, even though he didn’t want to, which was look at my stupid face.

Leonard: That’s a rude thing to say, out loud.
Sheldon: It’s an outrage. Honestly, I’m tempted to leave the university.

Leonard: Whatever you do, just don’t make any rash decisions.
Sheldon: I don’t know. I am really aggravated.

Leonard: What you working on?
Sheldon: I’m writing an appeal to the Faculty Senate, so that I can move on from string theory.

Leonard: Oh. How’s it going?
Sheldon: You tell me. Dear Esteemed Colleagues, as you may know, I have requested to change my field of study. My decision to do so is, I believe, in the best interest of science. At your convenience, I’d be happy to explain it to you in words you’ll understand.

Leonard: It’s nice that you called them esteemed.
Sheldon: You’re right. I’ll take that out.

Leonard: So, listen, there was something I was hoping to float past you.
Sheldon: Mm.

Leonard: Now that Penny and I are engaged, I thought we might want to talk about our living arrangements.
Sheldon: Of course. She’s spent many nights here, and you’re worried about preserving the myth of her virginity before the wedding.

Leonard: I’m not.
Sheldon: Good, because not only has that ship sailed, if it hit an iceberg, countless men would perish.

Leonard: Actually, this is about where she and I are going to live.
Sheldon: What do you mean?

Leonard: Well, well, we might want to live together.
Sheldon: Oh, yeah, well, I’ve already given this some thought, and I’m willing to let Penny live with us one day a week for a trial period. Now, obviously, not when she’s made cranky by the shedding of her uterine lining.

Leonard: That’s very sweet. But we were thinking more of us maybe living together with… not you.
Sheldon: I don’t understand. How could we all live together if I’m not there?

Leonard: Look, I, I know this is, this is change, and that sounds scary.
Sheldon: Where are you going to go?

Leonard: I don’t know. We just started to think about this. Maybe I’ll move in with Penny, or maybe she and I’ll take this place, and you can move across the hall.
Sheldon: Move across the hall? Did you take a marijuana?

Leonard: No, I did not.
Sheldon: Did you get hit on the head with a coconut?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Well, then, I’m all out of guesses. What? Me move across the hall. Why would you even suggest such a thing?

Leonard: Because I love Penny, and want to give her the life she deserves.
Sheldon: I see. You’re putting your future bride’s happiness above mine.

Leonard: Well, yeah.
Sheldon: Wow.

Scene: Amy’s apartment. 
Sheldon: How dare the university force me to go back to string theory?

Amy: They just don’t appreciate you.
Sheldon: Yeah, and on top of that, Leonard has the audacity to suggest that now that he and Penny are engaged, he may not want to live with me any more.

Amy: Here, I made you some Strawberry Quik.
Sheldon: I have real problems here, Amy. I can’t be mollified with a beverage designed for children. Mmm, yummy.

Amy: You know, this might work out for the best. I mean, you’re always complaining about what a terrible roommate Leonard is. Like how he turns up the thermostat when you’re not there.
Sheldon: Ugh, it’s like walking into the Amazon. And not the good Amazon with one-day shipping. The awful one with birds and snakes.

Amy: You hate the sound of all those keys on his key chain.
Sheldon: Four keys! Who does he think he is, a warden?

Amy: See? Maybe you’ll love living alone.
Sheldon: I don’t know. Perhaps.

Amy: And if it turns out you don’t, you and I could live together.
Sheldon: You and… oh, sure, and while we’re at it, why don’t we get engaged, too? Why don’t we get a little house, start a family? Enjoy our sunset years together? Do you hear yourself, woman?

Amy: Sheldon, it was just a thought.
Sheldon: No. Here’s a thought. You’re not moving in, Leonard’s not moving out, everything stays exactly the way it is. And by the way, I saw you make this Strawberry Quik with syrup, you’re supposed to use the powder.

Amy: It tastes the same.
Sheldon: No. The syrup tastes better and I don’t like it.

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: No.

Stuart: Hey, Sheldon.
Sheldon: What happened?

Stuart: I was cooking in the back room last night and the hot plate caught on fire.
Sheldon: And you couldn’t put it out?

Stuart: I was across the street at the do-it-yourself car wash, taking a shower.
Sheldon: So when will you reopen?

Stuart: Um, I don’t know. I’m waiting to hear back from the insurance company.
Sheldon: So, tomorrow?

Stuart: I don’t mean to be rude, Sheldon, but, uh, my life is kind of falling apart right now.
Sheldon: Your life? The university is making me do string theory and my girlfriend loves me so much she wants to live with me. And now, the place I need to go when I’m sad is damp and smells funny.

Stuart: Well, sorry I let you down.
Sheldon: No. I do not accept this. Everything is changing and I hate it. It stops now. I’m helping you get back on your feet. I would like to purchase this comic book, please.

Stuart: That’ll be $2.99.
Sheldon: Really? It’s soaking wet.

Stuart: Fine, a dollar.
Sheldon: Can you break a twenty?

Stuart: No, I only have hundreds.
Sheldon: You know what? I don’t always recognize sarcasm, but I do right now, and I don’t appreciate it. I’m sorry for your loss. But you’re not the only one whose day has been a disaster.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: You tracked my phone?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Boy, you chase one balloon for three miles.

Penny: We were worried about you.
Sheldon: Don’t be melodramatic. I’m just getting on a train and leaving forever.

Leonard: Seriously? You don’t even have a change of clothes or a toothbrush.
Sheldon: My plan is to stop at malls and buy what I need. It’s called living off the land.

Leonard: Okay, I know you’re upset and there’s a lot of stuff going on, but it’s nothing we can’t work out. Come on, let’s get you home.
Sheldon: No. I’ve reached my breaking point. I need to leave. Now.

Penny: And go where?
Sheldon: It doesn’t matter.

Leonard: So a few things don’t go your way and your best decision is to ride the rails like a hobo?
Sheldon: I suppose it is. Except I have a credit card. And I refuse to carry my laptop at the end of a stick. And I’d sooner die than eat beans out of a can.

Leonard: Come on, come home with us and tomorrow I’ll, I’ll take you to Legoland.
Sheldon: Legoland is not the solution to everything. And it’s too much of a scene since that movie came out.

Leonard: Then what can I do?
Sheldon: Leonard, I am overwhelmed. Everything is changing and it’s simply too much. I need to get away and think.

Penny: He’ll be okay. You taught him well, Padawan.
Sheldon: Good Lord. Padawan’s the student, not the teacher.

Leonard: Sheldon, if you really need to do this, I’m not gonna stand in your way.
Sheldon: I do.

Penny: Be safe and call us.
Sheldon: I will.

Leonard: Bye, buddy. Sheldon?
Sheldon: Yes?

Leonard: I’m gonna miss you.
Sheldon: Of course you are.

Scene: A railway station. Sheldon is wearing no trousers.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Is it at all possible that you’re knitting a pair of pants? Oh, well, no, you’re understandably terrified. But, you know, allow me to explain. 45 days ago, um, I embarked on a railroad journey of healing because my university was making me do string theory, and my favorite comic book store burned down, and when my room mate got engaged, my girlfriend wanted to move in with me, which was no doubt a ploy just to see my, well, excuse my language, but my bathing suit parts. Uh, sir, may I use your phone?

Man: I don’t think so.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, I understand that I’m half naked, but there is a reasonable explanation. While I slept in my sleeper car, all my possessions were stolen. Now, typically, I wear pyjamas, but I recently adopted a hobo lifestyle and pyjamas are the sleep-pants of the Man. I’ll have you know, Mahatma Gandhi wore no pants and a nation rallied behind him. My good man, now, before you walk away, I know that I may appear deranged, but I am, in fact, a world-renowned physicist. Ask me the difference between a boson and a fermion. Go ahead, ask. Bosons have integer spin, fermions have half-integer spin. My legs are getting cold. Why won’t anybody help me?

Leonard: Um, let me just have some coffee first, and then I’ll have the strength to tell you how much I won’t be doing that. (Phone rings) Hello?
Sheldon: Hello, Leonard.

Leonard: Hey, buddy. Good to hear your voice.
Sheldon: Uh, I’m in Kingman, Arizona, and, uh, I need you to come pick me up.

Leonard: I’d love to. I’m just about to do yoga with Penny.
Sheldon: Leonard, I’m at the police station. I was robbed. They took my phone, my wallet, my iPad, everything.

Leonard: Oh, my God, are you okay?
Sheldon: No, I’m not okay. Uh, I’m wearing borrowed pants, I don’t have I.D., and one of the officers here won’t stop calling me chicken legs.

 
Sheldon: 2530 East Andy Devine Avenue,

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: Hurry.

Leonard: Sheldon, hang tight. Hey, do you want me to bring anything?
Sheldon: Oh, yes, please. A pair of pants. And my toothbrush. Yeah, and my mail. And a really good comeback for chicken legs, because “I know you are, but what am I?” was met with stony silence.

Scene: Kingman Police Station.
Sheldon: Excuse me, Officer Hernandez? Any leads on the person who stole my belongings?

Hernandez: Not yet.
Sheldon: Well, perhaps I can help. Sherlock Holmes always says when you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. Now, have, have you tried doing that?

Hernandez: Nope.
Sheldon: Well, maybe you should. There’s lots of books called Sherlock Holmes, and there’s no books called Officer Hernandez.

Scene: Kingman Police Station.
Sheldon: Any word on my stolen items?

Hernandez: We’re doing everything we can.
Sheldon: You know, Sherlock Holmes liked to use cocaine to sharpen his focus. But I’m sure those Cool Ranch Doritos are doing the trick.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Leonard. Oh, I’m so happy to see you.

Amy: Are you okay?
Sheldon: Oh, I’m fine. Why did you come?

Amy: What do you mean, why did I come? You’re my boyfriend. I haven’t seen you in over a month. I just drove six hours to help you out. Don’t you have anything to say besides why did you come?
Sheldon: I do, but, I feel uncomfortable saying it out loud in front of these police officers.

Leonard: So, Sheldon, tell us about your trip. Where’d you go?
Sheldon: Where didn’t I go? I went to New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Denver, Seattle.

Leonard: How were they?
Sheldon: Oh, I have no idea. I never left the train station.

Leonard: Hang on. You travelled across the entire country and never left a train station?
Sheldon: Why would I? That’s where all the cool trains are.

Leonard: I’m sorry, so you never went outside?
Sheldon: Or had a single piece of fruit.

Scene: Leonard’s car.
Sheldon: At the hot dog stand in the Denver train station, Heinz ketchup. At the hot dog stand in the Salt Lake City train station, Heinz ketchup. At the hot dog stand in the Indianapolis train station?

Leonard: I don’t care.
Sheldon: Wrong. Hunt’s. Hey, Amy, what do you say? You ready to move on to the mustard round?

Amy: Have you not noticed that I’ve been sitting back here quietly stewing for the past two hours?
Sheldon: I just thought you were bad at the game.

Amy: I’m mad at you. How could you just go away like that without even saying good-bye, and then call Leonard for help instead of me?
Sheldon: Amy, may I please have a moment of privacy to speak with my roommate?

Amy: We’re in a moving car. What do you expect me to do? Stick my fingers in my ears?
Sheldon: Well, I was thinking put your head out the window like a dog, but that’ll work. Please? This’ll be quick. Leonard? As soon as we get home, I want to have coitus with Amy. Okay, she can’t hear. The reason I called you is because I didn’t want Amy to know I couldn’t make it on my own.

Leonard: What’s the big deal?
Sheldon: Oh, of course it’s no big deal to you. You idolize me, and nothing could ever knock me off that pedestal you put me on.

Leonard: Just tell her.
Sheldon: I called Leonard because I failed. And I didn’t want you to think less of me.

Amy: You were worried about that?
Sheldon: Yes.

Amy: Sheldon, it’s okay with me that you’re not perfect.
Sheldon: Can I have one more moment with Leonard?

Amy: Sure.
Sheldon: Amy just hurt my feelings. I want to break up with her.

Scene: The stairwell. 
Sheldon: I wish I’d never gone on that trip. I feel no better now than when I left.

Leonard: Yeah. If you had told anyone that you were going away on a train by yourself across the country, do you know what they would have said?
Sheldon: That I couldn’t do it?

Amy: But you did do it. So what if it didn’t all go your way? That’s what makes it an adventure.
Sheldon: That’s a good point. You know, I’m a lot like Gandalf the Grey. He fought the Balrog and emerged stronger than ever as Gandalf the White. I was robbed of my phone and pants, and I, too, came back stronger. And whiter, too, ’cause I wasn’t in direct sunlight for six weeks.

Amy: See? This trip was good for you.
Sheldon: Indeed. I was the world’s smartest caterpillar. And then after pupating in our nation’s railway system, I’ve burst forth as the world’s smartest butterfly.

Leonard: Butterfly could’ve gotten himself home from Arizona.
Sheldon: Yeah, I feel renewed. I’m ready to deal with any changes that come my way.

Penny: Hey, look who’s back.
Sheldon: Your hair is different. You changed your hair. I can’t take this. I’m out.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Would you like to see pictures from my trip?

Penny: I thought your phone got stolen.
Sheldon: Yeah, it did, but luckily all my photos got backed up to the Cloud.

Leonard: And you thought they all had a silver lining.
Sheldon: Here, day one, uh, this was the seat I was going to sit in but didn’t because there were cracker crumbs on it. As it was first class, I suspect Ritz. This is the train bathroom. This is the Imodium I took so I would never have to use the train bathroom.

Penny: I cannot believe you travelled the entire country and never left the train station.
Sheldon: I know. You know, I almost died in a fire in Des Moines, but I stayed put. FYI, that’s when the Imodium gave out.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I recently read that during World War Two, Joseph Stalin had a research program to create supersoldiers by having women impregnated by gorillas.

Howard: Yes, but when they’re hungry-hungry, you can stop them with marbles.
Sheldon: Yeah, the correct animal for interspecies supersolider is koala. You would wind up with an army so cute it couldn’t be attacked.

Raj: But half-man, half-owl could fly…
Sheldon: The answer is cuddly soldiers with big flat noses. Moving on.

Penny: I said I’ll get to it.
Sheldon: I’m sensing awkwardness, am I right?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Swish.

Leonard: Mm, I don’t know. Who here has ever been hurt because they were the teacher’s pet?
Sheldon: It was like the rest of the class wanted Ms. McDonald to forget the quiz.

Scene: Mrs Davis’ office.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Mrs. Davis. (Knock, knock, knock) Guess who?

Mrs Davis: Dr. Cooper.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) That’s right, good job. Hello. Uh, you wanted to see me?

Mrs Davis: Yes. Uh, welcome back.
Sheldon: Thank you. I assume you’d like to reopen our dialogue about the university forcing me to continue with string theory?

Mrs Davis: You mean the dialogue that went, please, no, please, no, please, no.
Sheldon: That’s the one. I believe you went last, so, uh, please?

Mrs Davis: Dr. Cooper, while you were away, we came up with a solution that would allow you to change your field of study.
Sheldon: Wow. Pouting and running away actually worked. I must say, that may not be a lesson you want to reinforce with me. So, um, what is the solution?

Mrs Davis: Currently, you’re being paid under a grant to specifically research string theory. If we promote you to junior professor, you’ll be able to choose whatever field of research you’d like.
Sheldon: But if I’m a professor, then I’ll have to teach a class.

Mrs Davis: That is correct.
Sheldon: So your solution is to promote me and pay me more money so that I can impart my knowledge to the next generation of scientists?

Mrs Davis: Yes.
Sheldon: You people are sick.

Leonard: Hey, how’d it go with human resources?
Sheldon: Awful. They’re allowing me to move on from string theory, but they made me a junior professor and are requiring me to teach a class.

Raj: I don’t understand. Why is it bad that you have to teach?
Sheldon: What a stupid question.

Leonard: The kids are gonna love him.
Sheldon: I can’t believe I have to waste my time babysitting a bunch of grad students who probably think dark matter is what’s in their diapers.

Leonard: This might not be that bad. Uh, you like telling people they’re wrong.
Sheldon: Wrong, Just because I enjoyed that one doesn’t mean I always do.

Raj: You enjoy giving people grades.
Sheldon: A valid point, but unoriginal. B-minus.

Howard: And you love the sound of your own voice.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, of course I do. Listen to it. It’s like an earful of melted caramel.

Leonard: Look, most importantly, this will let you move on and study dark matter.
Sheldon: It is true that many of my heroes have taken students under their wings. Feynman, Einstein, Professor X. Humorously, in the case of Professor X, some of his students actually had wings. That’s rich. I’ll use that one to lighten the mood after my entire class fails the midterm.

Leonard: Hey. We just wanted to see how your class was going. Where is everybody?
Sheldon: There is no class.

Howard: Did you send everyone to the principal’s office already?
Sheldon: No one signed up.

Leonard: Well, that’s not your fault.
Sheldon: I called the department secretary to see what happened. Apparently, I have a reputation for being obnoxious.

Raj: Hey, Sheldon, I’m sorry.
Sheldon: No, it’s fine. Now I can devote all my time to dark matter.

Raj: Aw, you brought cookies for everyone?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. Fig Newtons. I was going to ask them which scientist both helped to develop calculus and had a famous cookie named after him? And then after someone said Newton, I was going to tell them they’re wrong. The cookies are named after a town in Massachusetts. And then I’d throw the cookies away.

Howard: Hey, what if I took your class?
Sheldon: Why would you do that?

Howard: I’m thinking about getting my doctorate, and he wants to teach. Why not?
Sheldon: Oh, Howard. I appreciate the gesture, but this is a graduate-level physics class. I don’t think you’d understand a single thing I was talking about.

Howard: Sheldon, I’m more than smart enough to take your class.
Sheldon: No.

Howard: Yes.
Sheldon: How would you determine the ground state of a quantum system with no exact solution?

Howard: I would guess a wave-function and then vary its parameters until I found the lowest energy solution.
Sheldon: Hmm. Do you know how to integrate X squared times E to the minus X, without looking it up?

Howard: I’d use Feynman’s trick, differentiate under the integral sign.
Sheldon: Okay. Um, what is the correct interpretation of quantum mechanics?

Howard: Since every interpretation gives exactly the same answer to every measurement, they are all equally correct. However, I know you believe in the Many Worlds Interpretation, so I’ll say that. Now do you think I’m smart enough?
Sheldon: No.

Howard: Oh, come on. You might’ve gone to school for a couple more years than me, but guess what, engineers are just as smart as physicists.
Sheldon: You take that back.

Amy: So, after drinks with Bernadette, I get home, and Penny calls to complain about her. And then while I’m talking to Penny, I get a text from Bernadette.
Sheldon: I am trying to prepare my lesson plan for Howard. Why are you telling me this?

Amy: Because it’s taken 15 years, but high school is finally awesome. I love them both, but I’m in the centre now, and I love that even more.
Sheldon: Amy, please. I am trying to figure out a way to intellectually emasculate a dear friend of mine.

Amy: But I’m just…
Sheldon: Not now.

Leonard: Hmm. You’re up late.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m working on my lesson plan for Wolowitz. He is going to be so lost. Look at this section over here. Even I don’t really understand it.

Leonard: Sheldon, why are you doing this?
Sheldon: I’m a teacher, Leonard. It’s my job.

Leonard: No, I mean, why are you going to so much trouble to prove that you’re smarter than Wolowitz?
Sheldon: Oh, it’s no trouble, it’s actually a pleasure.

Leonard: You want to know what I think? I think the idea that someone could be as smart as you, or even smarter, scares the pants off you, and you can’t deal with it.
Sheldon: Interesting point. You’re suggesting that I have emotional issues below my consciousness which drive my behaviour, thus causing me to lash out at anything or anyone that threatens my intellectual superiority.

Leonard: Might be something to think about.
Sheldon: Leonard?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Howard’s allergic to peanuts. How can I use that against him?

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Okay, now that everyone’s here, we can begin.

Howard: Before we do, I just talked to Leonard. And if you’re gonna spend all your time trying to belittle me by making this class unnecessarily hard, then I’m out. But if you’re interested in making a sincere effort to be a good teacher, then I’m willing to give this a shot.
Sheldon: I suppose that’s a fair request. There’s no reason we both can’t benefit from this experience.

Howard: Okay.
Sheldon: Okay. Well, then, uh, first things first. Um, are you familiar with the Brachistochrone problem?

Howard: I am.
Sheldon: Good. And how it relates to the calculus of variations?

Howard: It’s an inverted cycloid.
Sheldon: Wonderful. Now, what about Euler-Lagrange theorems?

Howard: That’s where I’m a little fuzzy.
Sheldon: Ha! I knew it. All right. We have a lot of information to cover before your first test. Which, by the way, is in eight minutes. The good news is I’m grading on a curve, so you’re pretty much guaranteed a C.

Howard (singing): All I do is win, win, win no matter what.
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Howard (singing): Everybody hands go up, up and they stay there!
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Howard: If you’re gonna be a crappy teacher, then I’m gonna be a crappy student. (Singing) Uh, uh, Ludacris going in on the verse. ’cause I never been defeated and I won’t stop now…
Sheldon: Will you stop it. This is a classroom. This is not American Bandstand.

Howard: Okay.
Sheldon: Now, where was I? Let’s see. Oh, yes. Over here. You… What are you doing now?

Howard: Making a straw.
Sheldon: Why?

Howard: So I can shoot you with a spitball.
Sheldon: You’re not going to do that, and I’ll tell you why. This is an institution of higher learning, I am your professor, and you’re going to treat me with the prop… You shot your spit in my mouth!

Amy: You mean, like, where she’s nice to your face? Okay got it. Bye. Hey, boyfriend.
Sheldon: Can’t talk. Spitball. Probably gonna die.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Well?

Leonard: Sheldon, I promise. Your uvula does not have an STD.
Sheldon: Are you sure? It just doesn’t feel as innocent as it used to.

Howard: You reported me to human resources?
Sheldon: You violated the sanctity of my mouth.

Howard: Well, I dropped your class, so I hope you’re happy.
Sheldon: I told you you weren’t smart enough to take it.

Howard: I’m smart enough, Sheldon. Asking me a bunch of questions about a topic I’m not familiar with doesn’t prove anything. I could do the same to you.
Sheldon: Yeah, try me.

Howard: Okay. You enjoy making fun of engineering so much, how do you quantify the strength of materials?
Sheldon: Young’s modulus.

Howard: Yeah. Okay, how do you prevent eddy currents in a transformer?
Sheldon: Laminate the core material.

Howard: Okay, this one is for a Cadbury Creme Egg.
Sheldon: Oh! It’s not even Easter time. This is crazy.

Raj: I’m heckling you. It’s a beloved part of baseball.
Sheldon: He’s right. And given that you’re probably still waiting to be picked for a game that was played in fifth grade, I’m sure you do suck.

Penny: That’s so cool. Congratulations. I guess that makes you the athlete of the group.
Sheldon: Well, not just him. May I remind you that you’re talking to the seeker, beater, chaser and water boy of the third place Griffith Park Quidditch team.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: Did you enjoy my lecture?

Amy: No, and neither did our waiter.
Sheldon: Well, if you’re going to serve Cornish game hen, you should either be familiar with the history of Cornwall or be prepared to learn it.

Penny: Hey, how was dinner?
Sheldon: Good, I had Cornish game hen.

Penny: You guys are going out two nights in a row?
Sheldon: I missed a number of date nights while I was on my train trip, and I’m contractually obligated to make them up under the terms of the Relationship Agreement.

Amy: It’s better than hot, it’s binding.
Sheldon: If you’re free tomorrow night, I’d love to have you join us on a double date.

Amy: You are aware that a double date doesn’t count as two dates.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, then come or don’t. I don’t care.

Penny: Sheldon, I’m surprised you’d choose to go to a pub.
Sheldon: At our committee meeting, Amy made a motion for a picnic in a park, but I tacked so many amendments on that thing it sank like a lead balloon.

Amy: I then suggested a pub.
Sheldon: Yeah, which I was initially sceptical of until I saw online that they serve Yorkshire pudding.

Leonard: You don’t even like Yorkshire pudding.
Sheldon: No, it’s yucky, but informing people about the history of Yorkshire is yummy, yum-yum.

Leonard: Nice to see a busy couple keep the spark of bureaucracy alive.
Sheldon: Ignore them, Amy. They’re just jealous because they’ll never have a relationship as good as ours.

Penny: Isn’t this when he says bazooka or something?
Sheldon: I wasn’t making a joke, I was merely stating fact. Amy and I have a superior relationship to yours.

Leonard: You don’t honestly think that, do you?
Sheldon: Leonard, I assumed you knew. The ranking of relationships in our circle by quality is me and Amy, Howard and Bernadette, Raj and his girlfriend, Penny and Chardonnay, Penny and you.

Leonard: Okay, I got to, I, I, I, I got to ask. What makes you think that your relationship is so wonderful and ours isn’t?
Sheldon: For starters, we enjoy spending time together.

Leonard: So do we. And I’ve seen you guys ignore each other for hours doing totally different things.
Sheldon: It’s called parallel play.

Leonard: Yeah, toddlers do that.
Sheldon: Not as well as we do.

Penny: So what? Why do you even care?
Sheldon: Oh, listen to them. Not even married and the honeymoon’s over.

Leonard: Whatever. You can’t even go on a date without checking your relationship agreement.
Sheldon: If you’ve got a problem basing a relationship on a contract, I’d like to tell you about 13 plucky colonies that entered a relationship agreement called the U.S. Constitution. And it may not be cool to say so, but I think that love affair is still pretty hot today.

Penny: Uh, we’re not sure. But I want to wait long enough to prove to my mother I’m not pregnant.
Sheldon: May I have one of your fries?

Amy: Of course. Can I have a bite of your burger?
Sheldon: Absolutely not.

Leonard: Some perfect couple. He won’t even share his food with her.
Sheldon: It has avocado on it. She’s allergic to avocado. Are you so jealous of our relationship you want Amy to die?

Leonard: I’m not jealous. I just think it’s silly for you to compare relationships like they’re something that can be quantified.
Sheldon: Everything is quantifiable. That French fry? A seven. Spider-Man? A nine. The number nine? Oddly, only a four.

Leonard: Sheldon, you’re just assigning random numbers to things based on your opinion.
Sheldon: No, I’m not. French fries have three variables, crispiness, saltiness and shape. Which is why a curly fry only gets a two. If I wanted curls for dinner, I’d order a clown wig.

Penny: Well, a relationship is more complicated than a French fry.
Sheldon: Not according to the work of Berscheid, Snyder and Omoto.

Amy: They developed the Relationship Closeness Inventory, which predicts the stability of a couple based on behaviour.
Sheldon: Yeah, not to be confused with the French Fry Goodness Inventory. That’s pure Cooper.

Leonard: So, this is accurate?
Sheldon: It’s been around for 25 years, and has been extensively corroborated by other researchers.

Penny: Well, kind of takes the romance out of relationships.
Sheldon: Kind of? It does it perfectly.

Amy: No, we’re sorry. We never should have been comparing relationships in the first place.
Sheldon: Why? We won. You know, I say, next, we take on Koothrappali and his dog. Really give ourselves a challenge.

Leonard: I just want to say one more thing about this. Just because Penny and I are very different people does not mean that we’re a bad couple.
Sheldon: The answer is one simple test away. Hmm? You know, it’s like when I thought there was a possum in my closet. Did I sit around wondering? No, I sent Leonard in with a pointy stick and a bag.

Leonard: Because it doesn’t matter. I don’t care if we’re a ten or a two.
Sheldon: Or a one. A one is possible.

Amy: It would make me so happy if you said things like that.
Sheldon: We got an eight-point-two. Trust me, you’re happy.

Leonard: This is fun, huh? We get to see our friend throw out the first pitch, have a hot dog, watch the game.
Sheldon: Whoa. Nobody said anything about watching the game.

Amy: Sheldon, what did you expect?
Sheldon: I expected to see Howard throw the baseball, finish my hot dog, and hightail it across the street to Disneyland just in time for Mickey’s Soundsational Parade.

Amy: I’ll tell you what. If we stay, I’ll buy you cotton candy and a bobblehead.
Sheldon: Who’s the bobblehead of?

Amy: Does it matter?
Sheldon: No, as long as it bobbles.

Howard: ‘Cause I’m an idiot who didn’t think this through.
Sheldon: Okay, new plan. We go to Disneyland, play hide and seek on Tom Sawyer’s Island, and then come back and see the end of the pitch.

Man in Crowd: You suck, Wolowitz!
Sheldon: He makes a valid point.

Leonard: Have you guys heard about this research team that’s trying to transgenically manipulate chicken DNA to create some sort of chicken dinosaur?
Sheldon: Oh, I think that sounds wonderful.

Howard: What? You’re afraid of both dinosaurs and chickens.
Sheldon: Yes, but tell me a dinosaur chicken salad sandwich wouldn’t hit the Mesozoic spot.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Yeah. I’m excited to finally meet your girlfriend.
Sheldon: Speaking of which, according to a recent study out of Oxford University, when someone takes on a new romantic partner, that person loses one or two close friends.

Howard: Since when do you read social science?
Sheldon: I go to the bathroom like everybody else.

Raj: Hey, guys.
Sheldon: Hello.

Emily: Uh, yeah, I’m a resident at Huntington Hospital.
Sheldon: Oh, I like their emergency room. Yeah, even if it turns out you don’t have Dengue fever, they still let you take a lollipop.

Emily: Yeah. I’m sure that’d be fine.
Sheldon: I have some odd freckles on my buttocks. Can I make an appointment for you to look at them?

Scene: Capital Comics.
Sheldon: I miss Stuart’s place. All this loud music and exposed brick. What, is this a comic book store, or a rave at the third little pig’s house?

Raj: You know, he might not reopen. He didn’t get a lot of money from the insurance company.
Sheldon: Oh, boy, if there is one thing that gets my goat, it’s those dad-gum insurance companies.

Howard: All I know is, he’s got my mother buying four-ply toilet paper. I mean, four-ply. If his butt is so delicate, why doesn’t he just use an angora rabbit?
Sheldon: For starters, they shed and bite.

Raj: Ooh, maybe we could come up with a business plan to compete with this place.
Sheldon: I’ll give you a plan right now. Step one, open comic book store. Step two, start rumour this comic book store gives you genital warts. Step three, buy a big bag to put the money in.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: So, what are some ways we could set our comic book store apart from the competition?

Raj: Ooh, what if we got a van and drove around and picked kids up?
Sheldon: Nice. You mean, like at parks and schools?

Leonard: Hold on. So, your idea is to get a van and cruise the streets looking for kids to pick up?
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: Great.
Sheldon: On the bright side, that Oxford study was right. One friend down. I wonder who you’re going to lose next.

Raj: You, okay? It’s you. You’re, you’re next.
Sheldon: No. You’re crazy about me.

Scene: Capital Comics.
Sheldon: You know, the more I think about it, the more intrigued I am about having our own store.

Howard: We’ll get to see all the new stuff before it hits the shelves.
Sheldon: And we’ll get to have fun interactions with our customers. Like, this isn’t a library, buy it or get out.

Howard: You say things like that all the time.
Sheldon: Yes, but as a store owner, I’ll finally have a good comeback to, You don’t work here, shut up.

Leonard: Well, do you think when she and I had that conversation, she left people off her list?
Sheldon: I’m sure she did.

Leonard: Why?
Sheldon: Because if she hadn’t, she’d still be wading through the list.

Leonard: Will you stay out of this?
Sheldon: If only Penny had said that once in a while.

Howard: Yeah, and I’m not sure that complete honesty is always the best thing for a relationship.
Sheldon: Yeah, he’s right. Once, in a moment of candour, I told Amy that her hair reminded me of a duck caught in an oil spill. She stormed out. Which was sad, because we were playing Scrabble, and I had all the letters to spell persimmon.

Leonard: Why are you even part of this conversation? You don’t know anything about women.
Sheldon: I know that if I had a wife or a fiancée, I’d ask her first before I invested money in a comic book store.

Howard: He’s right.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, of course I am. I was also right about her hair. It did everything but quack.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I’d like your honest opinion on something.

Amy: Of course.
Sheldon: Now, before I start, I need you to know that I’m very excited about this, and anything you say that isn’t enthusiastically supportive will throw our entire relationship into question. So, keep an open mind.

Amy: I’m feeling a little backed into a corner, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Perfect. Now, I’m considering investing in Stuart’s comic book store.

Amy: Interesting. Can you see how a grown man, an accomplished scientist, who invests in a store that sells picture books about flying men in colourful underwear might be wasting both his financial and intellectual resources?
Sheldon: No.

Amy: Then I think it’s a terrific idea.
Sheldon: Great. Wait till you hear about our van.

Leonard: I know. I was looking forward to it.
Sheldon: It would’ve been so nice to have a place that was ours, where we could just sit and read comics in peace.

Raj: And snacks.
Sheldon: Well, I guess it was too good to be true.

Bernadette: Speaking of new careers, how are things going with dark matter, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Oh, yeah, I’d have to say it’s the most exiting time in the history of the field.

Bernadette: Oh. What’s going on?
Sheldon: I started doing it.

Penny: Wait, hang on, you guys are gonna work in a mine?
Sheldon: Why not?

Penny: You had a panic attack when we went through the car wash.
Sheldon: Perhaps the emotion you’re referring to was shock at you having something cleaned.

Leonard: Yeah, it’ll help them get away when they see a g-g-ghost.
Sheldon:Are they making fun of us?

Raj: Yup.
Sheldon: I miss the old days when I couldn’t tell.

Raj: Hey, Sheldon, you busy?
Sheldon: I’m always busy. This mind is capable of advanced multitasking. You know, currently, I’m attempting to solve the Penrose conjecture, I’m composing my Nobel acceptance speech for when I’ve solved the Penrose conjecture, and I’m wondering how mermaids have babies.

Raj: Don’t they lay eggs on a rock?
Sheldon: Now I’ve got room for another thing. What do you want?

Raj: So, I did a little research on what the conditions are like in the mines, and the guys might be right, sounds pretty rough down there. For starters, it’s very humid, and about a hundred degrees.
Sheldon: Well, I’m from Texas and you’re from India, we’re no strangers to the fragrant armpit. Next.

Raj: It’s also a live mine, so there’ll be dynamite explosions going off in the distance.
Sheldon: Yeah, I have a lactose intolerant roommate with a taste for ice cream. Next.

Raj: Oh, you have to be down there for 12 hours at a time.
Sheldon: Yeah? We have to be somewhere.

Raj: Well, there’s no toilets, we’ll have to do our business in a bucket.
Sheldon: So it’s settled, we’re not doing it.

Raj: Look, I get it, but before we pass up on an incredible opportunity, I was thinking about when Howard was training to go to space, they put him in a simulated environment.
Sheldon: Interesting. You’re suggesting that we recreate the conditions of the mine to see if we can handle it.

Raj: Exactly.
Sheldon: Very well.

Raj: So where should we do it?
Sheldon: Well, I’ll just Google hot, dark and moist, see what comes up.

Raj: Uh, Sheldon…
Sheldon: Oh, there, well, look, there’s all kinds of videos.

Amy: No. They forgot I was there. But it really opened up my pores.
Sheldon: Well, according to my research, the steam tunnels below this access point should be the closest analog to the mines.

Raj: This is gonna be so much more accurate than the steam room at the gym.
Sheldon: Plus, there’s almost no chance we’ll see any of our coworkers half naked.

Raj: Or totally naked. I love Howard, but the dude needs a little shame.
Sheldon: All right, Amy, this walkie-talkie is yours. If we run into any problems, I’ll contact you. And if anything bad happens, what’s the rule?

Amy: Sheldon, I’m really impressed you’re willing to try this.
Sheldon: Well, admittedly, this brushes up against my well-known aversions to heat, small places, going below floor-level, dampness, hatches, ladders, darkness, echoes, and eliminating in Home Depot buckets. That last one is quite new, but I have a feeling that’s gonna rocket to the top of the list.

Raj: I’m sweating already.
Sheldon: Yeah, as the person beneath you, allow me to say, I know.

Raj: How hot is it?
Sheldon: Uh, let’s see. 704? No, wait, it’s on clock. Uh, the real answer isn’t much better. 102 degrees.

Raj: Well, that’s what we wanted. This is as hot as the mines will be.
Sheldon: True. Sheldon’s Mine Simulation Log, entry one. Koothrappali’s restating of the obvious is already getting on my nerves.

Raj: How you feeling?
Sheldon: Good. Little claustrophobic.

Raj: Let’s set up the equipment. It’ll help take your mind off of it.
Sheldon: Miners often sang mining songs to keep their spirits up.

Raj: Do you know any mining songs?
Sheldon: Just the hits. (Singing) Where it’s dark as a dungeon, and it’s damp as the dew.

Rajj: That’s pretty.
Sheldon: Where the dangers are double, and the pleasures are few. Where the rain never falls and the sun never shines, yes, it’s dark as a dungeon way down in the mine.

Raj: It’s a little more bleak than I thought.
Sheldon: Well, I pray when I’m dead and the ages shall roll, that my body will blacken and turn into coal.

Raj: Getting kind of grim.
Sheldon: Then I’ll look from the door of my heavenly home, and pity the miner that mines my poor bones.

Raj: Okay. How ’bout a little Miley Cyrus next?
Sheldon: Who’s he?

Raj: So, as Hannah Montana, Miley was a world-famous pop star. But then she would take off her wig and go to school like a normal girl. Which, I don’t have to tell you, at that age, is its own headache.
Sheldon: That’s preposterous. How would she go unrecognized just by wearing a wig?

Raj: But you’re okay with Superman concealing his identity with a pair of glasses?
Sheldon: He doesn’t just put on a pair of glasses. He combs back his curlicue and affects a mild-mannered personality.

Amy (shouting): You guys doing okay down there?
Sheldon: I told you to use the walkie-talkie!

Amy (on walkie-talkie): You guys doing okay down there?
Sheldon: Please keep this channel clear for emergencies. Thank you.

Amy: I’m going to the vending machine. Do you want anything?
Sheldon: This is a simulation. We have to survive on the supplies we brought.

Raj: We should have asked her to get some Funyuns.
Sheldon: You’re not going to have Funyuns when we’re a mile below the surface of the Earth.

Raj: What if we brought them down with us?
Sheldon: We’ll take some Funyuns.

Amy: Anything else?
Sheldon: Some York Peppermint Patties, a couple of Dr. Peppers, and run to Best Buy and see if they have a portable DVD player and season one of a show called Hannah Montana.

Raj: Oh, this heat is brutal.
Sheldon: As someone from the tropical subcontinent of India, you should know that fanning yourself in a humid environment only raises your body temperature.

Rajj: Huh. That does explain why the servants used to look so hot while they were fanning me. Let’s get our minds off how uncomfortable we are. We could take some more simulated instrument readings.
Sheldon: My major focus at the moment is keeping my claustrophobia at bay.

Raj: How’s that going?
Sheldon: You tell me. I feel like I can’t breathe, and I am tempted to crack you open and suck the air right out of your lungs.

Raj: Sheldon, if this is too much, we can stop.
Sheldon: We’re not stopping.

Raj: You don’t have to bite my head off.
Sheldon: I apologize. I just, I’m plagued by an internal struggle.

Raj: If you would just use the bucket, you’d be so much more comfortable.
Sheldon: My struggle is emotional.

Raj: Oh. Is it Amy?
Sheldon: It’s dark matter. When I entered the field of string theory, I was a prodigy. I rose to a position of respect, and I assumed my career would continue on that upward trajectory. Now here I am in my 30s, I’m back at square one. And, frankly, it’s frightening.

Raj: Sheldon, you know what I think of when I’m scared? Voyager.
Sheldon: Voyager the space probe or Voyager the Star Trek TV show?

Raj: The space probe.
Sheldon: Good. Because I am too hot and tired to go on about how much I hate Voyager the TV show.

Amy: Sheldon, is everything okay?
Sheldon: It’s too late for Koothrappali. Let’s go.

Amy: Do you really need me to transcribe this?
Sheldon: You’re not doing it for me. You’re doing it for future generations who will benefit from my struggle. (Voice on recorder) Sheldon’s Mine Simulation Log, entry four. My Kit Kat has melted. All is lost.

Raj: You call yourself a friend? I was trying to help you, and at the first sign of trouble you ran away, leaving me to fend off a family of rats. You’re a completely selfish human being and a, and a physical and a moral coward.
Sheldon: His statements of the obvious continue to annoy.

Man with Flowers: Thank you.
Sheldon: No, thank you. Delivery men are the unsung foot soldiers of our nation’s commerce. It’s because of people like you, people like me can limit our human contact. I’d shake your hand, but, well, you know.

Man: I’m not a delivery man, I’m a doctor. Although I do often deliver alarming biopsy results to my patients.
Sheldon: That’s humorous.

Man: All right.
Sheldon: Yeah, I bet you leave your patients in stitches. That was also humorous.

Man: All right.
Sheldon: Are you bringing flowers to a patient to cushion the blow of a terminal diagnosis? That wasn’t a joke.

Man: All right. These are actually for a nice woman who makes sales calls to my office.
Sheldon: Hmm. You know, they have delivery people that will do that for you.

Man: I was hoping to impress her by tracking her down on the Internet and then showing up unannounced at her door.
Sheldon: Making the extra effort. Good for you.

Leonard: Great timing, food just got here.
Sheldon: Ooh, Siam Palace?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Uh, mee krob and chicken satay?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Uh, extra peanut sauce?

Leonard: No, but you can have mine.
Sheldon: Eh, well, very well. Oh, and on the topic of sharing things that are yours, there is a gentleman caller bringing flowers to your fiancée as we speak.

Leonard: What? Why didn’t you say that first?
Sheldon: Why didn’t you get extra peanut sauce? We can both play this game.

Man: Oh, uh, you probably don’t want her to see this. It’s unnecessarily graphic.
Sheldon: Hold on, Doctor. Leonard, where are your social skills? This man is clearly upset. We should invite him in for a hot beverage.

Leonard: He tried to score with Penny.
Sheldon: So have these two, and they’re having dinner with us.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Here you go, Doctor. Red Zinger with one teaspoon of honey.

Man: Ever since I was a kid, but, uh, I didn’t really get serious until William Shatner’s bladder infection.
Sheldon: What’d you get? What’d you get?

Leonard: Oh. Well, you know, just being myself, really.
Sheldon: Oh, please, you know, I’ll tell you how he did it. Implacable, relentless badgering. In urology terms, he was a drug-resistant staph infection. And she was a urethra that could not shake him.

Leonard: Ah, that’s a good question. Apparently someone was being awfully flirty while not wearing their engagement ring, causing another someone to show up here thinking the first someone might be available.
Sheldon: Oh, God. Don’t make it so hard on her. Look, the first someone is the deceitful you. The second someone is the delightful Dr. Lorvis.

Leonard: I’ll be right back.
Sheldon: So what other celebrity genitalia have you handled?

Leonard: Oh, my God.
Sheldon: Leonard, I was wrong. Heaven does exist. And it’s in the basement of a urologist’s house in Sherman Oaks.

Leonard: Wow, Donkey Kong. This, this was my game when I was a kid.
Sheldon: Because it’s a story of a pretty blonde girl tirelessly pursued by a small, oddly-shaped man?

Leonard: No, because I liked it.
Sheldon: Well, now, don’t get defensive. You’re oddly-shaped, but you got the girl.

Dr Lorvis: So, I’ve noticed Leonard gets teased a lot 0about his relationship with Penny.
Sheldon: Yes. If you’d like to join in, the premise is their love seems unlikely and doomed to failure.

Dr Lorvis: So, you think she’ll be single soon?
Sheldon: Oh, if you want to get in on the pool, you’re too late. All the squares have been purchased.

Dr Lorvis: Interesting. Excuse me, I have to take care of something.
Sheldon: Leonard, as your friend I feel I should tell you something.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I’m still upset about that peanut sauce.

Leonard: Next game, let’s switch helmets.
Sheldon: No, I’d look silly in that helmet.

Leonard: Uh, guys, we’re locked in here.
Sheldon: Oh, this day just keeps getting better.

Scene: Dr Lorvis’ basement. 
Sheldon: You can do this.

Howard: Fine, it bothers me. You happy?
Sheldon: You think you’ve got problems. The gibbon is the only member of the ape family not classified as a great ape.

Howard: How is this helpful?
Sheldon: All the non-human apes are classified as great apes except one. That means taxonomists created the entire category of lesser ape just to single out the poor gibbon as the weird kid on the playground. Now there’s a hairy little fellow with a genuine beef.

Leonard: But the gibbon doesn’t know what it’s categorized as. It doesn’t even know it’s called a gibbon.
Sheldon: True. Sorry, kid, you’ve got it worse than a gibbon.

Raj: Did you go to your prom?
Sheldon: No. I had a date with a proper education. Instead of a tuxedo, I dressed myself in good habits. Instead of spiked punch, I enjoyed the intoxicating flavour of knowledge. Instead of dancing in a gym, I shook my bootyto the seductive rhythms…

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny? (Knock, knock, knock) Penny?

Penny: You knocked more than usual.
Sheldon: Next time I might be in a rush, it’s good to have a few in the bank.

Penny: Okay, what’s up?
Sheldon: I’d like to discuss this party that Amy and Bernadette are throwing. Since you and I are both reluctant to go, I think I’ve come up with a perfect way for us to enjoy it.

Penny: Great, how?
Sheldon: We pretend we’re aliens. I’m not the best at reading facial cues, but I’m gonna say that you love it and want to hear more. Now, in the beloved novel Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, an alien named Ford Prefect pretended to be human in order to blend in so that he could write an entry about Earth for The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, which is a travel book within the actual book, which is also called The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.

Penny: Okay, just one question. What?
Sheldon: My point is, pretending to be an alien is a valuable coping mechanism I’ve used many times. I did it the first time I went to see you in a play. You had no idea Commander Umfrumf of Ceti Alpha Three was in the audience. Oh, don’t worry, he gave you seven thumbs up.

Penny: Here’s a question, as an alien pretending to be human, are you planning to engage in any post-prom mating rituals with Amy?
Sheldon: There are post-prom mating rituals?

Penny: Not always. Unless your date drives a van with an air mattress, then always.
Sheldon: Well, if it’s part of the prom experience, then I’m open to it.

Penny: You’re kidding.
Sheldon: I may be an alien, but I have urges. If Amy wants to copulate by firing her eggs into space, well, then, I will happily catch them with the reproductive sac on my upper flermin. I’m not the best at reading facial cues, but I can see that you’re a little turned on.

Leonard: You know, if you’re not gonna learn how to do this, they make some pretty good clip-ons.
Sheldon: Bruce Wayne doesn’t wear a clip-on.

Leonard: Bruce Wayne doesn’t make his roommate tie it for him.
Sheldon: His name is Alfred, and, yes, he does.

Leonard: There, perfect.
Sheldon: What, are you sure? It’s my first prom, I want to do it correctly.

Leonard: I thought you were gonna pretend to be an alien.
Sheldon: I was, but Penny didn’t want to. You didn’t want to. Bernadette, Amy, Koothrappali and Wolowitz didn’t want to. And even I knew it was weird to hire somebody.

Leonard: Was that a flask?
Sheldon: Yes. I’ve decided to embrace all of the traditions associated with prom, including spiking the punch.

Leonard: You’re gonna put alcohol in the punch?
Sheldon: Oh, no, this is pomegranate juice. It’s all the fun of high school high jinks with the cell-protecting zip of antioxidants.

Leonard: If you had ripped jeans and a leather jacket, you’d be like the toughest kid on the Disney Channel. So, anything else planned for tonight?
Sheldon: Oh, everything. Getting our picture taken, slow-dancing, being elected prom king. Pointing out that kings aren’t elected. It’s gonna be off the hook.

Leonard: And while you’re at it, I know that at this age your hormones are raging, but just because all your friends are having sex doesn’t mean you have to.
Sheldon: Why would you say that?

Leonard: You know, ’cause, ’cause a lot of people lose their virginity on prom night.
Sheldon: Penny implied the same thing. Is this true?

Amy: Sheldon, you look so handsome.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Leonard: Oh, it’s a scaly genital organ that grows between his shoulder blades. Try not to touch it when you’re dancing.
Sheldon: Excuse me.

Amy: Where are you going?
Sheldon: I can’t do this. And for your information, Leonard, the upper flermin doesn’t grow between my shoulder blades, it grows out of the belly button on my neck.

Amy: Sheldon, can I come in?
Sheldon: I don’t think that’s a good idea.

Amy: Why not?
Sheldon: According to an online message board, I may be having a panic attack. SoccerMom09 had similar symptoms. But to be fair, the twins were a real handful that day.

Amy: You’re making me worry. What’s going on?
Sheldon: What’s going on is we’re about to go to a prom. And there’s a great deal of pressure on young couples like us to engage in what Mr. Bob Eubanks called making whoopee.

Amy: What pressure? All I said was you look handsome. Can you please open the door?
Sheldon: It’s not just that. Leonard and Penny also made comments about it. And I’m not blind. Even I looked twice when I saw my posterior in these tuxedo pants.

Amy: Sheldon, this is silly. I’m not missing another prom. I’m going upstairs now. Good-bye.
Sheldon: I really did think you looked pretty.

Amy: You did?
Sheldon: Yes. So much so that I started to panic.

Amy: Well, you can relax. Just because you think I look pretty doesn’t mean we have to spend the night together.
Sheldon: Were you hoping we would because it’s prom?

Amy: I’m always hoping. But tonight I just wanted to have a nice time with you. And maybe dance with someone who has arms.
Sheldon: Thank you for understanding.

Amy: Of course I understand. Sheldon, there’s something else I’ve been wanting to say, but before I do, I just, I want you to know that you don’t have to say it back. I know you’re not ready, and I don’t want you to say it just because social convention dictates…
Sheldon: I love you, too.

Amy: You said it.
Sheldon: There’s no denying I have feelings for you that can’t be explained in any other way. I briefly considered that I had a brain parasite. But that seems even more farfetched. The only conclusion was love. I know what’s happening. This is a panic attack. SoccerMom09 says to lie down with your feet elevated.

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Just because I love you doesn’t mean girls are allowed in my room.

Amy: This is an easy one. You love this guy.
Sheldon: Me.

Amy: Come on, he’s an under-appreciated genius.
Sheldon: Still think it’s me.

Amy: It’s not you. Now think, there’s a car named after him.
Sheldon: Of course there is. The Mini Cooper, ’cause it’s me.

Amy: How about this, he’s a poor man’s Sheldon Cooper.
Sheldon: Oh, Tesla.

Amy: Hello.
Sheldon: Hey, how did it go?

Leonard: Yeah. It’s a deviated septum. The surgery to correct it is simple. He’s gonna do it next week.
Sheldon: Why would you have surgery?

Penny: Yeah, back off, he’s all mine.
Sheldon: But you don’t have a life-threatening condition. Why would you take the risk of surgery?

Amy: Sheldon, it’s a routine procedure, I’ve heard you complain about his snoring.
Sheldon: Yes, for the first five or six years, but I’ve gotten used to it. It helps me sleep. He’s like my mucus-powered white noise machine.

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m gonna get the surgery, it’s no big deal. End of story.
Sheldon: Very well. I’m done talking about it.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: I believe it was your turn in the game.

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: Let’s see. Oh, this person is most famous for never having gotten his nose mutilated with elective surgery and never living the rest of his life in the shadows as a hideous, disfigured freak.

Leonard: I think you could give a better clue.
Sheldon: I don’t. I’m not even sure if that’s a person or a typo.

Leonard: Okay, why?
Sheldon: I’m listening to you snore. I’m wondering how I’ll ever sleep without it.

Leonard: If it helps you sleep, then why are you sitting here staring at me like the albino boogeyman?
Sheldon: Really Leonard. Insults? After I spent two hours in your closet, waiting for you to fall asleep?

Leonard: What’s your problem?
Sheldon: If the surgery is successful, the snoring is gone. And if you die during surgery, the snoring is gone.

Leonard: It sounds like either way, I finally get some rest.
Sheldon: I have to be honest with you Leonard, I’m truly worried.

Leonard: I told you, there’s nothing to worry about.
Sheldon: Well, I’ve been doing some research and I’ve learned that one in 700,000 people die from general anaesthesia.

Leonard: Buddy, wh, do you realize that that also means 699,999 people don’t die?
Sheldon: I suppose that’s true. You’re such a glass half-full kind of guy. I’m going to miss that.

Leonard: Hey. What’re you working on?
Sheldon: Remember when I said if you went through with your surgery, there was a one-in-700,000 chance of dying?

Leonard: Yeah?
Sheldon: Well, I’ve been crunching the numbers, and so far, I’ve gotten your probability of death all the way to a sphincter-tightening one in 300.

Leonard: Great timing. My check sphincter light just went on.
Sheldon: Leonard, what if you have an allergic reaction to the surgeon’s latex gloves?

Leonard: I’m not allergic to latex.
Sheldon: Well, then why don’t you wear the rubber gloves I bought for you to do the dishes?

Leonard: For the same reason I don’t wear the apron or the hair net.
Sheldon: Fine. What about epilepsy?

Leonard: I don’t have epilepsy, either.
Sheldon: You don’t, but the surgeon might, hmm? And your carotid artery is just one shaky scalpel away from becoming the dancing fountain at Disneyland.

Leonard: Sheldon, do you realize that driving is riskier than surgery?
Sheldon: I do. I have the drive to the hospital right here. That is if you make it to the car without falling down the stairs. And don’t expect me to carry you, I do that enough in life.

Leonard: Buddy, I, I get that you’re worried about me and I, I appreciate that, but I’m not going to die.
Sheldon: You don’t know that.

Leonard: Well, I do know that it won’t be from an asteroid strike.
Sheldon: You know who else said that? Every cocky T. Rex currently swimming around in the gas tank of your car.

Leonard: If there was an asteroid strike, wouldn’t you die, too?
Sheldon: I don’t know, I’m smart and scrappy, I think I’d find a way.

Leonard: Tell you what, the surgery’s not for a week, I’ll think about it.
Sheldon: Thank you. And while you’re thinking about it, if you have the surgery in Nicaragua during monsoon season, I can practically guarantee your death.

Scene: Amy’s car.
Sheldon: 18 parts per million. And he’s still doing it.

Amy: Don’t worry about that. I’m happy to take you to work.
Sheldon: Well, thank you. And Leonard never lets me have French toast sticks in the car. I can’t have syrupy fingers, but he can do the backstroke in a toilet bowl.

Amy: It’s nice they’re getting exercise.
Sheldon: Although now that I think about it, Leonard would never go swimming in public without his swim shirt.

Amy: I’m sure he brought it.
Sheldon: No, but last year, at Magic Mountain, he got such a bad sunburn, we had to cut him out of it.

Amy: He probably got a new one. Finish your breakfast. Look, there’s an entire section of my dashboard that doesn’t have any syrup on it.
Sheldon: You’re acting odd. Why?

Amy: I’m odd all the time, everyone knows that. Just last night I tried to see how many fava beans I could fit in my mouth.
Sheldon: Tell me the truth.

Amy: Twenty eight.
Sheldon: Come on.

Amy: Fifty six.
Sheldon: Amy. What’s going on?

Amy: All right. Don’t get upset, but, an earlier appointment opened up for Leonard and he’s getting the surgery right now.
Sheldon: I see. Take me to Leonard.

Amy: Just go to work, he’ll be fine.
Sheldon: Amy, he’s my best friend, and if you don’t take me, I’m going there anyway.

Amy: Fine. It’s sweet that you care about him so much.
Sheldon: I do. And I wouldn’t be able to forgive myself if something happened to him and I wasn’t at his bedside to say I told you so.

Scene: The waiting room. 
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: We had a really nice swim.
Sheldon: Oh, stop it. I assume this medical centre’s already treated the burns on your bottom from the recent pants fire.

Penny: ‘Cause I’m a liar, liar?
Sheldon: That’s for the fire marshal to determine.

Amy: He wore me down. And I was distracted, he has on extra baby powder today.
Sheldon: Is he okay?

Penny: He’s still in surgery.
Sheldon: Very well.

Amy: Come on, let’s talk about something other than the surgery.
Sheldon: That’s a good idea. Penny, did you and Leonard ever discuss funeral arrangements?

Penny: I think she meant something a little happier.
Sheldon: I suppose we could try to make it a celebration, but he died so young.

Penny: Oh, it’s nice you got him that.
Sheldon: Oh, this isn’t for Leonard, no. Amy bought it for me.

Amy: Stubbed his toe on the revolving door on the way in.
Sheldon: You know those confounded things make me dizzy.

Amy: Who told you to keep going around?
Sheldon: There was a large plant in the lobby. It kept looking like the outside.

Amy: Penny has a good point. This is like the man in the supermarket with the goiter on his neck. Whatever you’re thinking, just keep it to yourself.
Sheldon: It was like a grapefruit.

Amy: And I’m sure he knew that before you held a grapefruit up next to it.
Sheldon: Well, I’m not making any promises. Not only did Leonard take what I feel is an unnecessary risk, he deceived me.

Penny: Okay, the reason he deceived you is you were being a pain in the ass.
Sheldon: The reason I was being a pain in the B is because I was worried about him, and no one else was.

Penny: Really? You won’t even say A?
Sheldon: You bet your sweet B I won’t.

Penny: Obviously, I care about Leonard. I’m gonna spend the rest of my life with him.
Sheldon: And I’m not? It’s an earthquake. I knew it.

Penny: Sheldon, it was just a little tremor.
Sheldon: A little tremor that turns routine sinus surgery into a frontal lobotomy. Oh, I don’t care for this at all. Oh, I need to see he’s okay.

Amy: Sheldon, you can’t go back there.
Sheldon: Try and stop me.

Amy: Are you okay?
Sheldon: Why didn’t you stop me?

Penny: Come on, smile. This is gonna be my Christmas card.
Sheldon: You know this is all your fault.

Leonard: How is it my fault?
Sheldon: I told you not to get the surgery.

Leonard: Okay, first of all, the surgery was a success, and secondly, I didn’t even want you there.
Sheldon: Wow. I don’t know which hurts worse, my nose or my heart. Well, I’m done speaking to you.

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m sorry I didn’t tell you about the surgery, but you were worried about nothing.
Sheldon: Oh, you’re hardly out of the woods, no. You still run the risk of infection, a blood clot, the possibility that an inattentive surgeon let a barn spider lay eggs in your nose. The minute you sneeze web, I’m moving out.

Penny: Yeah, once he figures out how to work a door.
Sheldon: I was not panicked, and I am not overly attached to Leonard.

Leonard: You were so worried that you smashed your face trying to check on me. You love me.
Sheldon: Yeah. Tell me those aren’t the words of a man with a spider eating its way through his brain. Amy, you’re a neuroscientist. Crack his skull open, spray some Raid in there.

Leonard: Oh, what’d you get?
Sheldon: Oh, I ordered it before your surgery. It’s the urn I was going to put you in.

Penny: Okay, that’s morbid. Send it back.
Sheldon: I can’t send it back, I had it engraved. Here lie the ashes of Leonard Hofstadter. He thought he was right, but his room mate knew better.”

Penny: Hey, why did you get two? I’m with stupid.
Sheldon: Oh, that one’s mine.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello. I’m Doctor Sheldon Cooper, and welcome to Sheldon Cooper presents Fun with Flags, the final episode flagtacular. I knew it was coming. Still scary. Now, I’m sure you’re thinking, the final episode? Who will stand between us and flag ignorance?

Amy: I know I was thinking that. Is this a show on flags or mind reading?
Sheldon: But the truth is I can no longer balance a full-time career, a popular Internet show, and a girlfriend.

Amy: And he really does have one, you jerks on the comment board.
Sheldon: So as they say, all good things must come to an end.

Amy: After only 232 episodes.
Sheldon: 233 if we include the one somebody forgot to press record on.

Amy: You said you weren’t gonna bring that up.
Sheldon: And you said you pressed record. Anyway, please sit back, relax, and join us as we take our final lap, as indicated by the waving of this racing flag. And, of course, white flags can also represent surrender, the Stewards of Gondor, and the Japanese Minamoto clan, but I’m sure you remember that from episode sixty-two, White Flags, Who’s Wavin’ ‘Em and Why?

Amy: That was a good one.
Sheldon: It was so good.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Over the years here at Fun With Flags, we’ve had an opportunity to learn, laugh, wonder.

Amy: And, yes, even shed a tear or two.
Sheldon: Like when you do a two-hour Fourth of July spectacular and it doesn’t get recorded.

Amy: How many times do I have to say I’m sorry?
Sheldon: How about four thousand. One for every domino I set up to make that American flag. Please enjoy these highlights.

Highlight 1
Sheldon: Crikey, what flag do we have today?

Highlight 2
Sheldon: And now it’s time for the speed round of Flag or Not a Flag.

Amy: Say, Betsy Ross, what you working on?
Sheldon: I have no idea. Because the story of me sewing the first American flag is unsupported poppycock.

Amy: Then who did sew it, hmm?
Sheldon: Don’t ask me. I’m just a simple seamstress whose descendants are out to make a quick buck.

Highlight 4
Sheldon: Fancy a dip, my dear?

Amy: I do.
Sheldon: Wait, that purple flag indicates that marine pests, such as jellyfish, are present.

Amy: Wow, that flag is a lifesaver.
Sheldon: No. This is. Stop looking at my legs.

Amy: Action.
Sheldon: Welcome back. Our guest today is a returning fan favourite. He puts the reading in your rainbow, the Geordi in your La Forge, and the Kunta in your Kinte, Mr. LeVar Burton.

LeVar Burton: Thank you, Sheldon. Now, remember our deal.
Sheldon: You do this, I delete your contact information.

LeVar: While?
Sheldon: While you watch me do it.

LeVar: Great. Happy to be back.
Sheldon: Well, since you’re here, I’d like to get your opinion on something. In honour of Black History Month, I portrayed George Washington Carver in a loving tribute that my roommate called wildly racist. What do you think? (On recording) Hi. My name is George.

LeVar: Oh, hell, no.
Sheldon: You heard him, Leonard. No, it’s not racist.

Scene:The apartment.
Sheldon: Well, my little flag-keteers, it looks like the last episode of Fun with Flags is at an end. If I could, I would run each and every one of you viewers up a flagpole and salute you. And if you touched the ground, burn you. I’d like to take a moment to personally thank Dr. Amy Farrah Fowler, who you may or may not know is the first woman to co-host a flag or banner-related Internet info-tainment show.

Amy: Take that, glass ceiling.
Sheldon: And if I may get serious for a moment, hosting this show has been one crazy ride. But with all its ups and downs, I wouldn’t give it up for the world. Except for now, when I’m giving it up. Before I sign off, I’d, uh, I’d like to share with you all one last use for a white flag. It’s good for times like this. Good night.

Amy: Cut. Sheldon, that was beautiful.
Sheldon: If you didn’t press record…

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: How come you’re up so late?
Sheldon: I posted the last episode of Fun with Flags hours ago, and not a single person cared enough to comment. All that effort for nothing.

Leonard: Mm. I know how you feel. I spent the day throwing out a man’s entire career, and all that’s left is an old bottle of champagne and a naked lady pen that Raj took when he thought no one was looking.
Sheldon: It’s not the same thing. I don’t think you know how I feel at all.

Leonard: Sad?
Sheldon: Hmm. You do get me. Someone left a comment.

Leonard: Yeah. What did they say?
Sheldon: Too bad your show is done. I kind of liked it. Leonard, did you hear that? Oh, the people are heartbroken. I can’t take this away from the world. Fun with Flags is back.

Leonard: Congratulations.
Sheldon: Let’s celebrate.

Leonard: Sheldon, that wasn’t for you.
Sheldon: Oh, no, I’m not going to drink it. I just wanted to hear the pop. Yeah, I knew it was coming. Still scary.

Scene: LeVar Burton’s house.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) LeVar Burton? (Knock, knock, knock) LeVar Burton? (Knock, knock, knock) LeVar Burton?

LeVar: Ugh. What are you doing here?
Sheldon: You told me not to call, and I didn’t know how else to give you the good news. Fun with Flags is back, and you can be in the next episode.

LeVar: Wil Wheaton said, get a gate. I don’t know why I didn’t get a gate.
Sheldon: You, at least listen to the premise. Since you were born in Germany, I thought we could talk

Raj; Not great. They hired divorce attorneys.
Sheldon: You know, speaking of attorneys, if I ever needed a lawyer, I would not hire She-Hulk.

Howard: Yeah, she works at a law firm in New York.
Sheldon: Yes, but she’s the only monster at the firm. Between you, me and the wall, I think she’s an affirmative action hire.

Amy: I’ve always wanted to do a traditional Victorian Christmas. Parlour games, goose and figgy pudding.
Sheldon: Ugh. English pudding. You get yourself all excited for pudding, and here comes a cake with raisins in it. I’m not going.

Amy: You’re going.
Sheldon: Why do you hate me?

Amy: I don’t hate you. I love you.
Sheldon: Well, you call it love, but it has a lot of raisins in it.

Bernadette (singing): Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus, right down Santa Claus Lane. Vixen and Blitzen and all his reindeer pulling on the reins.
Sheldon: Yeah, I appreciate the ride.

Bernadette (singing): Bells are ringing, children singing, all is merry and bright. So hang your stockings and say your prayers ’cause Santa Claus is coming tonight. Why’d you turn it off?
Sheldon: Because in the last ten minutes, Santa came to town, kissed Mommy and ran Grandma over with a reindeer. I had a drunk uncle who did all those things. Nobody sings songs about him.

Bernadette: Maybe you’d like it more if you thought of Santa as a superhero and his power is bringing joy to children.
Sheldon: My uncle was accused of that, too. It turned out to be legal in Oklahoma.

Bernadette: Okay, new subject. Let’s talk about presents. What did you get Amy?
Sheldon: Oh, we’re not exchanging gifts.

Bernadette: Come on, Sheldon, you have to get her something.
Sheldon: Why should I? She knows that I don’t like Christmas, and yet, every year, she forces me to celebrate it. Not only am I going to this foolish dinner against my will, at the Christmas tree lot, there was mistletoe, and she kissed me under it in public. Like we were the stars of a Tijuana sex show.

Bernadette: She’s just excited about the holidays.
Sheldon: Yes, and she’s not taking my feelings into account at all. Maybe it’s time I teach her a lesson.

Bernadette: How?
Sheldon: Hmm. It’d have to be something heinous, something that makes her as miserable as she’s making me. Oh, I’ve got it. This is good.

Bernadette: What?
Sheldon: I’m going to buy her a present.

Bernadette: Yeah, you’re gonna have to walk me through that.
Sheldon: With gift-giving, there’s an implied social contract. If I show up tonight with a present, and she doesn’t have one for me, she’ll feel terrible.

Bernadette: Then you’re both sad?
Sheldon: Yes. Maybe she’ll feel so guilty, she’ll never make me celebrate the holidays again.

Bernadette: So your evil plot here is to buy your girlfriend a present?
Sheldon: That’s right. So stay on my good side, or I’ll get you a little something, too.

Bernadette: What about that sweater?
Sheldon: No, it’s not good enough. It has to be perfect.

Bernadette: I think the nicest gifts I’ve got from Howie show how well he knows me.
Sheldon: Hmm. Let’s see, what do I know about Amy? She loves medieval literature, Chaucer’s her favourite. And her eyes sparkle when she watches old French movies. I enjoy how harp music causes her fingers to dance as if she’s playing along.

Bernadette: Wow, you really do love her.
Sheldon: I do. Now, let’s find the kind of gift that makes her feel small and worthless.

Santa: All right, let me see if I’ve got this straight. A picture of you on my lap is a way to punish your girlfriend for making you celebrate Christmas?
Sheldon: Correct.

Santa: Santa thinks dating you may be punishment enough.
Sheldon: There’s an argument for that. But I want to make sure.

Raj: Mmm. Amy, that pudding was delicious.
Sheldon: If you like raisins.

Amy: Thank you. And it’s figs.
Sheldon: Oh. Oh, in that case, it was pretty good.

Amy: Oh, you Heimliched a ball of wool out of me; you’re good.
Sheldon: Uh, what do you say we exchange gifts?

Leonard: I thought you hate giving gifts.
Sheldon: Yeah, I do. Which is why I got Amy this.

Amy: You got me something?
Sheldon: Oh, not just something, no. It’s from the heart, it’s holiday-themed, and I swallowed the gift receipt so you cannot return it.

Amy: Look at you on Santa’s lap. That’s so sweet.
Sheldon: Of course it is. It’s the perfect gift. How are you feeling right now? Guilty? Sad? Wishing you were Jewish?

Amy: No, I love it.
Sheldon: Oh, really? Well, how about now? (On recording) Happy holidays to my dear Amy. I hope you treasure this as much as I treasure you. (Not on recording) And you got me nothing. Christmas is ruined. Let’s never speak of it again. Well, this was fun.

Amy: Actually, I did get you something.
Sheldon: But what about our agreement?

Amy: Well, you got me something. Here.
Sheldon: Cookies?

Amy: They’re your Meemaw’s Christmas cookies. I called and got the recipe.
Sheldon: They’re perfect. It tastes like her hugs.

Amy: Merry Christmas, Sheldon.
Sheldon: I can’t believe this. You’re happy, I’m happy. Well, maybe a holiday that’s all about giving isn’t so… Get your hand out of that box.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: What colour would you like to be?

Leonard: Well, I’d like to be green, but you know you always take it.
Sheldon: That’s not true. Any colour’s fine with me. Yeah, I could be a-a combination of blue and yellow.

Leonard: Blue and yellow make green.
Sheldon: Well, then it’s settled.

Penny: Hi. Ready to go?
Sheldon: Oh, good news, we ordered lunch, so we can all stay here and play Lord of the Rings Risk.

Amy: Sheldon, we said that we would play games with you tonight.
Sheldon: Oh, no, we’ll still be playing it tonight, this game can easily take eight hours.

Penny: I don’t want to spend the whole day playing a board game.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, you may change your mind when you hear that this is the new expanded edition which contains a more complete map of Middle Earth, now including the Haradwaith Territories.

Penny: No. We’re always doing what you guys want. Just once, it’d be nice if you did something we wanted.
Sheldon: You want to be green?

Amy: Sheldon?
Sheldon: Fine. Now that we’re not playing, you can be green.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: And since you’re green this time, I can be it next time.

Penny: You were, but somehow I held myself back.
Sheldon: You know what you could make us do? Ice-skating. The cold air will trigger Leonard’s asthma and it plays right into my well-known fear of getting flattened by a Zamboni.

Leonard: Now you’re helping them find ways to make us miserable?
Sheldon: Well, I’m sorry, Leonard, I’m a problem-solver, it’s what I do.

Amy: Ooh, the philharmonic is playing Beethoven downtown.
Sheldon: Before you say yes, it’s not the movie about the big dog.

Leonard: Ah, interesting, we’re being accused of making you do things you don’t like, and here you are, doing the same thing to poor Amy.
Sheldon: You should point out the hypocrisy of that.

Leonard: That’s what I was doing.
Sheldon: Oh, that wasn’t clear. Try it again, but this time drive it home with how do you like them apples, Missy?

Penny: All right, keep thinking.
Sheldon: You’re making it too complicated. Why not stick to the basics? Go shopping for clothes while Leonard and I sit in those uncomfortable chairs and hold your purses, hmm? I know I’d hate that. Leonard?

Leonard: Well, yeah.
Sheldon: Well, then, it’s settled?

Penny: It does, somehow he managed to take all the fun out of it.
Sheldon: Well, once again, it’s what I do.

Leonard: This isn’t so bad.
Sheldon: That’s easy for you to say. Your chair’s not facing the lingerie section. Boy, that’s a lot of panties.

Amy: You guys comfy? This might take a while.
Sheldon: I don’t understand why women insist on making a big production out of buying clothes.

Penny: No, you’re right, we should do what you do. Have our mom send us pants from the Walmart in Houston.
Sheldon: They have a man there who understands my personal style.

Leonard: Uh, I’ve got some bad news. There’s no cell service in here.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, that’s all right. There were plenty of ways to pass the time before smart phones were invented.

Leonard: That’s true.
Sheldon: I’ll look them up. Son of a biscuit.

Leonard: Sheldon, it’s fine.
Sheldon: No, it’s not fine. What kind of store in the 21st century doesn’t at least have Wi-Fi? I’m going to call their corporate office. Son of a biscuit.

Scene: The same, later.
Sheldon: Let’s see, my armies are going to attack the Shire from Buckland. And I roll a five and a three.

Leonard: Okay. And to defend, I roll two sixes. I win.
Sheldon: Boy, double-sixes again. You know, if I hadn’t seen it with my own eyes, I wouldn’t believe it. I wonder how long we’re gonna be stuck here.

Leonard: I don’t know, but the girls do a lot for us. It’s the least we can do.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s true. I suppose it’s only fair we make compromises.

Leonard: Look at you, being all mature.
Sheldon: I don’t know why you’re so surprised. If there’s one thing I know about after living with you for so many years, it’s how to compromise.

Leonard: I, I’m sorry? You make compromises for me?
Sheldon: All the time.

Leonard: On Earth? In our lives? That, that, that we’re living?
Sheldon: Oh, yes. I, just yesterday, you had a, a big piece of lettuce stuck in your teeth at lunch. Did I say anything? No. I compromised and kept my mouth shut. Like you should’ve, because everyone was laughing at you.

Leonard: That is not a compromise. A compromise is me driving you everywhere because you refuse to learn how.
Sheldon: Oh, I learned how. Amy taught me.

Leonard: What? Then. then why don’t you do it?
Sheldon: Uh, well, it’s scary. And sometimes I get the pedals mixed up. But, more importantly, driving me to work is one of the things that gives your life purpose. I can’t take that away from you, so what do I do? Oh, come on, I’m practically feeding you the answer. I compromise.

Scene: The store.
Sheldon: Oh, here’s another one. I wish that the apple pancake mix was on the top shelf because it starts with an A, but I don’t put it there because I don’t want you breaking one of your little legs when you’re supposed to be making my breakfast.

Leonard: Is it my turn to talk about the compromises I make?
Sheldon: I wasn’t done, but go ahead. He said, compromising.

Leonard: Because of you, I’m not allowed to adjust the temperature in my own home. I’m not allowed to whistle. I don’t wear shoes that might squeak.
Sheldon: Well, you’re a physicist, not a circus clown.

Leonard: Sheldon, do you realize I don’t live with the woman I love because of you? No other reason. Just you.
Sheldon: Is that true?

Leonard: Yes, it’s true. The last time I brought it up, you had an emotional breakdown and got on a train and ran away.
Sheldon: Well, given my history on the subject, t seems a little reckless to bring it up now.

Leonard: You have no idea how much you inconvenience the lives of everyone around you. It’s exhausting.
Sheldon: You know what? You think you’re so tolerant, but the truth is you’re mean to me a lot. Yeah, you think that I don’t notice all those sarcastic comments and those eye rolls, but I do. Hmm? I have excellent peripheral vision. On a good day, I can see my ears.

Leonard: Sheldon, I, I’m sorry if I hurt your feelings. I’ve been holding a lot of this in for a while.
Sheldon: Well, I’m sorry, too. And if you want to live with Penny, then I think you should.

Leonard: Do you mean that?
Sheldon: Yes. Yeah, just put on your squeaky shoes and eee-eee-eee your way out of my life.

Leonard: Come on, don’t get upset.
Sheldon: I’m not upset. I’m just imagining a world without my best friend in it.

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: It’s okay.

Leonard: I’m not leaving your world. I’m just talking about living across the hall.
Sheldon: I understand. Either way, I want you to know that I’m aware of how difficult I can be. So I just want to say thank you for putting up with me.

Amy: Are you crazy? You know he’s a flight risk.
Sheldon: That’s exactly what I told him.

Penny: Sheldon, we know this is a sensitive subject, and Leonard’s not gonna move out until you’re ready.
Sheldon: Well, what if you did it gradually?

Leonard: All right. How about we start with two nights a week I live with Penny?
Sheldon: How about one night and I let you whistle?

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: When I’m not home.

Leonard: You got it.
Sheldon: There we go, compromising again. We really are the best.

Amy: Sheldon, that really is an excellent basket.
Sheldon: It’s not a basket. It’s a soldier’s helmet from 16th century China.

Leonard: Yeah, it looks great.
Sheldon: I saw that.

Leonard: Okay, we’re headed out, see you later.
Sheldon: Before you leave, could you test these noise-cancelling headphones?

Leonard: Yeah, sure.
Sheldon: Okay. Go ahead.

Leonard: Ooh, and one time when you were asleep, Amy totally took off her… and that’s why you’re the best roommate ever.
Sheldon: Aw, now I’m sad I didn’t hear it.

Penny: So what do you need the headphones for?
Sheldon: Well, I’ve been struggling for months to come up with a theory of dark matter that doesn’t make protons decay. I’m hoping to finally tackle it by optimising my work environment. See, I’ve got, uh, my tea is at the perfect sipping temperature. Uh, I have fleece-lined boxer shorts to keep my tushie toasty. And then, oh, last but not least, this inspirational cat poster improved with the reassuring face of physics renegade Richard Feynman.

Penny: Yeah, have fun.
Sheldon: Oh, I will, nothing more fun than a paradigm-shifting evening of science.

Leonard: Bye.
Sheldon: Okay. Here we go. Proton decay. Proton decay. (Time shift) Proton decay. Proton decay. (Time shift) Proton decay. Proton decay.

Leonard: Hey, we’re home. Any progress?
Sheldon: How could there be, with these constant interruptions?

Leonard: What are you doing? It’s time to go.
Sheldon: I’m not going to work today. And would you like to know why?

Leonard: Ah, you’re upset because you spent the whole night working on dark matter and didn’t make a breakthrough, and now you’re worried you made a huge mistake switching fields, and you’re gonna sit around and sulk all day?
Sheldon: Like a big old baby.

Leonard: Call me if you need anything.
Sheldon: I’ve been cooped up in here too long. Maybe I need some fresh air.

Penny (off): Ugh! Ugh! Ugh! Ugh! 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny?

Penny (off): Ugh!
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny?

Penny (off): Ugh!
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny?

Penny: Ugh, what?
Sheldon: You sounded in distress. I was worried something unpleasant was happening to you. Like a murder. Or spontaneous coitus with Leonard.

Penny: Oh, I’m just doing this awful workout. I hate it.
Sheldon: Well, if you hate it, then why are you doing it? Although I could ask the same question about coitus with Leonard.

Penny: I don’t know, I guess I like that I hate it. It makes me work harder.
Sheldon: And to clarify?

Penny: The exercise, Sheldon. Shouldn’t you be getting ready for work?
Sheldon: I’m not going. Would you like to know why?

Penny: Uh, you’re sad about not getting anything done last night, so you’re gonna sit around and pout about it?
Sheldon: Boy, I’m not nearly as mysterious as I think I am.

Leonard: Ooh, Emily. I heard him say that to Emily. Hey, I thought you were staying home.
Sheldon: Yeah, I was, but after talking to Penny, I realised something. I, first, she’s trying much harder to stay attractive in this relationship than you are. And second, the reason I may not be progressing in my research is I’ve created too pleasant of an environment for myself.

Howard: What do you mean?
Sheldon: According to a classic psychological experiment by Yerkes and Dodson, in order to maximize performance, one must create a state of productive anxiety. So I’d like to ask you all to do something for me. Keep me on my toes. Just throw me off my game. Essentially, go out of your way to make my life miserable.

Howard: Hold on. What’s in it for us?
Sheldon: Well, I suppose…

Scene: Amy’s laboratory.
Sheldon: Done.

Amy: 33 seconds. Okay, that’ll be our baseline.
Sheldon: You know, I don’t want to tell you how to do your job, but when a mouse completes a maze, it gets a food pellet.

Amy: It also gets its brain plucked out with tweezers.
Sheldon: And his last meal was a food pellet? You’re a monster.

Amy: All right, next, we’re gonna introduce an anxiety-inducing stimulus, measure your stress levels and see how it affects your problem-solving rate.
Sheldon: Very well. And good luck, I’m a pretty laid-back guy.

Amy: Ready? Begin. Why’d you pop it?
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I was aiming for your heart.

Amy: Look, I know you don’t like it, but that’s the point of the experiment. I need to irritate you to find your optimal anxiety zone. And you said no to tickling, polka music or watching me eat a banana.
Sheldon: Who eats them horizontally?

Amy: My mother said that’s how good girls do it.
Sheldon: Perhaps this was a waste of time.

Amy: Sheldon, you’re a remarkable scientist. Just be patient, I’m sure you’ll find the breakthrough you’ve been looking for.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: And if you only do solid research instead of making a groundbreaking discovery, what does it matter?
Sheldon: Only do solid research? I come to you for help, and you insult me? I thought the least that you would do would be…

Amy: Look, your anxiety levels are right in the zone.
Sheldon: Really? Oh, that’s fantastic. Now, wait, they’re dropping. Why are they dropping?

Amy: Because you’re happy they’re elevated.
Sheldon: Oh, that is infuriating. Ooh, look, they went back up again. Terrific. Oh, no, they went back down.

Leonard: That is a tough one. Uh, I know he brushes both of them.
Sheldon: Gentlemen, I have figured out the perfect way for you to irritate me. I’d like you to be my intellectual sparring partners. From now on, when I make an assertion, I need you to challenge it.

Leonard: So you just want us to disagree with whatever you say?
Sheldon: Yes.

Raj: And you think that’s going to help?
Sheldon: Yes.

Howard: Well, I don’t think that’s gonna help at all.
Sheldon: Oh, no, it will. See, by keeping my mind engaged, I’ll become more focused.

Leonard: Howard’s right, that’ll never work.
Sheldon: Stop fighting me on the premise. It’s scientifically valid. I’m going to advance propositions, I just want you to challenge me.

Raj: I don’t think that’s what you want at all.
Sheldon: Why, of course it’s what I want. Why would I say it’s what I want if it’s not what I want?

Leonard: Because it is what you want, and it’s not what you said.
Sheldon: I ask you for one simple thing, and you can’t even do it.

Howard: Yes, we can.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, then do it.

Howard: Nah.
Sheldon: You guys are the worst. Thank you, I think that was helpful.

Penny: Really? Want to go to Hawaii?
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Ladies? (Knock, knock, knock) Ladies? (Knock, knock, knock) Ladies?

Penny: Come in.
Sheldon: Ladies.

Penny: What’s up?
Sheldon: Well, as you may know, I’ve been experimenting with elevated anxiety levels, and I thought, what better way to increase my discomfort than to subject myself to an evening of tasteless uncensored crotch talk?

Penny: What exactly do you think goes on here?
Sheldon: Well, conversations that you wouldn’t be comfortable having in front of the opposite sex. You know, who has the best cervix. Which sanitary napkin is all the rage right now. Men’s buttocks, and how you want to pat and squeeze them.

Bernadette: We were talking about Penny’s job.
Sheldon: And how difficult it is to do when she’s bloated, cranky and crampy? Continue.

Penny: Sheldon, we are just people. We talk about the same things you guys talk about.
Sheldon: You talk about if werewolves can swim? See, Leonard says yes, but I say it depends on if the human could swim before he was bitten. What do you think?

Bernadette: Well, they’re not a hundred percent wolf. They’re a werewolf, that’s only part wolf. It’s like comparing apples to oranges.
Sheldon: Thank you. Oh, and technically, it’s apples that turn into were-oranges when the moon is full. Hey, this is fun. We should do it sometime when you aren’t all PMS’ing. Bye.

Leonard: What is going on?
Sheldon: Oh. Uh, I need to keep my anxiety at the right level, so I’m using Darth Vader, the Joker, and Godzilla’s roar to keep me in that sweet spot. Uh, I tried including Taylor Swift in the mix, but turns out I love her.

Leonard: Well, at least listen to it through headphones. I’m trying to sleep. Good night.
Sheldon: Boy, Taylor was right, haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate.

Amy: You’ve been working so much lately, I’m glad you didn’t forget about date night.
Sheldon: Of course.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: Yeah.

Amy: Maybe you want to put the notebook away and talk to me.
Sheldon: I can do both. My brain is working at optimal capacity. I can have a conversation with you and solve the dark matter proton decay problem at the same time.

Amy: Fine. How was your day?
Sheldon: Oh, you said it.

Amy: Sheldon. Sheldon, I’m worried about you. You’re not eating, you haven’t slept in days, and, to be honest, that cap is starting to smell.
Sheldon: I know. It’s replaced Godzilla as my principle source of anxiety.

Leonard: You didn’t have to scoop vomit out of your glove compartment.
Sheldon: He is getting a lot of work done. He had a pretty interesting take on proton decay.

Amy: Sheldon, I want you to take that cap off.
Sheldon: That nagging tone is helping my anxiety, yeah. But if you could maybe just go ten percent less shrill, that’d really put the zip-a-dee in my doo-dah.

Amy: I’m sorry, but you know we agreed not to bring work to date night.
Sheldon: There you go, perfect.

Amy: Sheldon, stop it, I’m not kidding. Take the cap off, and put the notebook away.
Sheldon: But after months of struggling, I’m finally making progress.

Amy: You don’t need to drive yourself crazy in order to be productive.
Sheldon: Or do I, hmm? Sir Isaac Newton wrote his Principia while convinced he was an armadillo.

Amy: That’s not true.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, maybe it is, maybe it isn’t. I have been hallucinating lately.

Amy: Sheldon, this has to stop. You need to get some sleep and take care of yourself.
Sheldon: Amy, I have gotten more done in the last few days than I have since I made the switch to dark matter. What if I stop doing this, and it all goes away?

Amy: Your thoughts and ideas come from you, not from your anxiety.
Sheldon: Hmm, perhaps. But I’m not taking the cap off.

Amy: It’s one thing to make yourself miserable, but you’re making everyone around you miserable, too. Now, I’m telling you for the last time, take the cap off.
Sheldon: Oh, really? What if I don’t? And before you answer that, can I have my dessert?

Scene: A bus.
Sheldon: And then she threw me out. Me, her very own boyfriend. When all I’ve done is try to help humanity reach of the world we live in.

Man: Yeah, well, women, what are you gonna do?
Sheldon: I knew you’d understand, Armadillo Isaac Newton.

Leonard: Here we are.
Sheldon: Hey. What are you trying to pull? The president of science isn’t in here.

Leonard: You lie down, he’ll be here in a minute.
Sheldon: Okay. Hey, I thought you were trying to trick me.

Penny: Now, you just get comfortable.
Sheldon: No, no, comfort is the enemy. You know what’s comfortable? Slippers and blankets and panda bears. Imagine a panda bear with Richard Feynman’s face on it. Warm up the car, Leonard, it’s poster time.

Penny: Yeah, you get some sleep.
Sheldon: No, I don’t want to go to sleep, you can’t make me.

Penny: You’re right, we can’t.
Sheldon: Yeah, darn straight, you can’t. Try to tell a grown man to go to sleep.

Leonard (singing): Little ball of fur.
Sheldon: That’s not gonna work.

Howard: You look like you got some rest.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m feeling much better. And I’ve also been continuing to make progress without artificially raising my anxiety levels.

Howard: Yeah, no problem.
Sheldon: Of course not.

Leonard: Which means a spherical multidimensional superfluid shows the same negative-energy density as space-time. So what do you think? What do you think? So what do you think?
Sheldon: Hmm.

Leonard: What? Is it wrong? Have you seen it somewhere else?
Sheldon: Hmm.

Leonard: I know this isn’t my area, and I could never do the math like you can, but could this be something?
Sheldon: Well, you could have set Newton’s gravitational constant to one. And, ugh, the whole thing reeks of blueberry. You know I can’t stand these scented markers.

Leonard: No one told you to taste them. Come on, is, is this good or not?
Sheldon: It’s good.

Leonard: Really?
Sheldon: I like it. I think you’re on to something.

Leonard: You do? You’re not messing with me?
Sheldon: Not at all. In fact, I have got something for just such an occasion. I was starting to think I might never get a chance to give it to you. Good job.

Leonard: You’re giving me a sticker?
Sheldon: Not just a sticker. That is a sticker of a kitty saying me-wow.

Leonard: I’m not a preschooler.
Sheldon: Fine, I’ll take it back.

Leonard: You’re still awake?
Sheldon: For a man whose last observation was our universe may be the surface of a multidimensional supercooled liquid, you’re still awake seems like quite the sophomore slump.

Leonard: You worked out all the math.
Sheldon: Oh, I did more than work out all the math. I wrote a paper.

Leonard: You wrote a paper on my idea?
Sheldon: I wrote a paper on our idea.

Leonard: When did my idea become our idea?
Sheldon: When I mixed it with Sheldony goodness and cooked it in the Easy-Bake oven of my mind.

Leonard: This is good. Our idea is really good.
Sheldon: Well, the lightbulb in this oven is ridiculously bright.

Leonard: You know, if no one’s thought of this, yet, this could be a big deal.
Sheldon: Only way we’ll know for sure is if we post it online to the pre-print server. I have it ready to go, but I wasn’t gonna do it without you.

Leonard: Wow, it’s all happening so fast. Should we just sleep on it?
Sheldon: We could, but we always run the risk of someone else beating us to the punch.

Leonard: You’re sure it’s good?
Sheldon: My name is right on there with yours. That is a surefire mark of quality. That might as well say directed by Joss Whedon.

Leonard: Okay, partner, let’s do it.
Sheldon: Come on. Click the mouse with me.

Leonard: Well, we did it.
Sheldon: Yes, we did, my friend.

Leonard: Is your tongue blue?
Sheldon: I don’t want to talk about it.

Leonard: Sheldon, this is superfluid helium. Put this in your mouth, your tongue will freeze and break off.
Sheldon: Does it smell like blueberries?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Then we’re probably okay.

Leonard: Let me see, let me see. One calls it insightful and innovative. We’re insightful and innovative.
Sheldon: Oh, nice to meet you, Mr. Insightful.

Leonard: Oh, the pleasure is mine, Mr. Innovative. Uh, another one says the concept shows some real out-of-the-box thinking. Do you hear that, Mr. Out-Of-The?
Sheldon: I do, indeed, Mr. Box-Thinking.

Raj: Just dandy, Mr I-Wish-I-Was-Better-At-Improv.
Sheldon: Read another one.

Leonard: Okay, okay. Uh, the analogy between space-time and a supercooled fluid is either meaningless or false. I wish this blog would devote itself to real science instead of wasting our time with crackpot wannabe theoreticians in a rush to publish.
Sheldon: Who wrote that?

Leonard: It’s anonymous, and user name General Relativity.
Sheldon: Well, I’m responding to it.

Leonard: Uh, don’t lower yourself to their level.
Sheldon: Look, I am simply going to defend our work, scientist to scientist. And failing that, suggest that his mother enjoys a string of both human and non-human lovers.

Leonard: Sheldon, my name’s on that paper, too. There’s no upside to doing this.
Sheldon: He just left another comment.

Leonard: Upon review, I’ve changed my mind about the Cooper-Hofstadter hypothesis that space-time is like a superfluid. In fact, it’s inspired me to come up with my own theory. Maybe space-time is like two clowns with their heads in a bucket, much like Cooper and Hofstadter.
Sheldon: Can I respond now?

Leonard: Do it.
Sheldon: You mess with the bull, you get the horns. I’m about to show this guy just how horny I can be.

Raj: Did he respond yet?
Sheldon: Hmm. No, not yet.

Leonard: Read it back one more time.
Sheldon: My good sir, we are neither crackpots nor wannabes. In fact, we are experts in our fields. And while you hide behind your anonymity, we stand behind our paper. And later tonight, your mother.

Leonard: And you don’t think that’s too rough?
Sheldon: We’re just standing behind her. It’s not like we’re gonna say boo and scare her.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: He still hasn’t responded. What’s taking him so long?

Leonard: Do you really want him to write back?
Sheldon: Yeah, I do. Then no matter how he responds, I am going to destroy him with a picture of a bored cat saying oh, really?

Raj: No. You have to read it how Dr. Angus McDougal of the University of Edinburgh would. This wee li’l bairn of a theory nearly blew me kilt off.
Sheldon: He wrote back. Cooper and Hofstadter resorting to juvenile attempts at humour is proof they have nothing to back up their ridiculous paper. It should come as no surprise given they work at Cal Tech, essentially a technical school, where even the physicists are basically engineers. Engineers? Do you know how insulting that is?

Raj: Guys, this person’s just going out of their way to get a rise out of you.
Sheldon: Yeah, but it’s still so aggravating.

Raj: See? Better with the accent.
Sheldon: And send.

Leonard: What did you write?
Sheldon: I’m done hiding from bullies. I’m taking this into the real world.

Leonard: What does that mean?
Sheldon: I told him we’ll meet him face-to-face anytime, anywhere.

Raj: Come on, Sheldon!
Sheldon: Oh, okay, okay, calm down. (Skype tone) It’s him. He’s trying to video chat. Perhaps I shouldn’t have taken this into the real world.

Howard: Well, I think the anonymity makes everyone feel like they can say things they’d never say to your face.
Sheldon: Interesting. I can’t think of a single thing I wouldn’t say to someone’s face.

Raj: You know what? At least you guys did something. You know, you, you had a theory, you wrote a paper, you made an actual contribution. All guys like this do is just stand on other people’s work.
Sheldon: He’s right. I say we call this person back. We’ve got no reason to hide.

Leonard: All right, do it. Call him. Let’s find out what this loser’s ever accomplished.
Sheldon: Click it with me. One, two, three, click.

Stephen Hawking: Well, hello there.
Sheldon: Professor Hawking?

Stephen Hawking: I like your paper very much. The premise is intriguing.
Sheldon: Then why are you attacking us?

Leonard: Stephen Hawking liked our paper. Said the premise is intriguing.
Sheldon: Good to see you again, Mr. Stephen-Hawking Liked-Our-Paper.

Scene: Amy’s laboratory.
Sheldon: I’ve invented a science joke, would you like to hear it?

Amy: Sure.
Sheldon: How many Edisons does it take to screw in a light bulb?

Amy: How many?
Sheldon: Who cares? He stole the idea and doesn’t deserve his own joke.

Amy: Is that really true?
Sheldon: Of course, that’s how you know it’s a good joke. It not only entertains, it informs.

Barry: Hey, sowwy to intewupt.
Sheldon: Uh, Barry, uh, how many Edisons does it take to screw in a light bulb?

Barry: Did you know Edison didn’t actuawy invent the wight bulb?
Sheldon: What do you want, Barry?

Amy: Well, that’s fascinating. I can’t wait to read it.
Sheldon: Oh, no, me as well. Uh, please e-mail it to Sheldon at bazinga dot biz. Why dot biz? Because I just gave you the business. And also bazinga dot com was taken.

Barry: Anyway, thanks again. Cooper, suck eggs.
Sheldon: Since when do you help out Barry Kripke?

Amy: Well, I’d been thinking about a cellular automata approach to neuronal connectivity, and I thought it might have some interesting applications to string theory, it’s not a big deal.
Sheldon: Oh, really? When I was doing string theory and hit a dead end, why didn’t you try to help me?

Amy: I did. You said the only math biologists know is if you have three frogs and one hops away, that leaves two frogs.
Sheldon: That’s pretty funny, that does sound like me. But that doesn’t mean that you should be standing on street corners handing out your math to whatever guy comes along.

Amy: Sheldon, we’re all scientists. I helped out a fellow colleague. You’re being petty.
Sheldon: I’m being petty? You know Barry and I have a professional rivalry. You heard him, he told me to suck eggs. If we were friends, he would have suggested I suck something more pleasant. Why are you laughing? Did you learn something?

Penny: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: You okay?
Sheldon: If I was okay, I would’ve said hello, and not the much more ominous hello.

Penny: What’s going on?
Sheldon: I’m mad at Amy.

Penny: Did she leave pit stains in your favourite crop top, too?
Sheldon: No. She helped Barry Kripke make an advancement in string theory.

Penny: Oh, that sounds like a good thing.
Sheldon: Well, it would be, except that I left string theory because I decided it was a dead end. Yeah, and then she went behind my back to help someone else prove me wrong. My rival, no less. I’m sorry you had to see that.

Penny: I’m sorry I didn’t have a camera.
Sheldon: Why would she do this to me?

Penny: Well, I’m sure she didn’t upset you on purpose. Besides, aren’t you the one who says there’s nothing more important than the advancement of science?
Sheldon: No, I said there’s nothing more important than me advancing science.

Penny: All right, well, if I’m understanding this right, and all she did was help out another scientist, I’m thinking you might have to let this one go.
Sheldon: Ugh, let it go. I have heard that my whole life. Every time something upsets me somebody says, let it go, you know, like it’s my fault, and it’s not okay to feel the way I feel.

Penny: I don’t know what to tell you. I mean, why don’t you talk to her?
Sheldon: Is that all you have? Shopworn tidbits like talk to her and let it go? Gee, Penny, life’s giving me lemons. What should I do?

Penny: Well, you could shove them somewhere.
Sheldon: Okay, now you’re getting creative.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: Kripke, you know, of all the people, Barry Kripke. I’m so… Are you folding that like a crazy person to get me to do it for you?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: Oh, give me that. Just out of curiosity, if I were to let something go, how would I do that?

Penny: I don’t know, just think about something else.
Sheldon: Can I think about the spiny anteater?

Penny: Sure.
Sheldon: The spiny anteater never went behind my back and worked with Barry Kripke. That didn’t help at all.

Penny: You know, some people try visualization.
Sheldon: How does that work?

Penny: Okay, imagine your problems are a pen.
Sheldon: Okay.

Penny: Now imagine you’re holding that pen.
Sheldon: Okay.

Penny: Now open your hand and let it go.
Sheldon: But I just got this pen. It’s got my initials on it and everything. Look.

Penny: Sheldon, this isn’t that hard.
Sheldon: I may have a better way that you can teach me.

Penny: How?
Sheldon: What if I told you that over the past few months Amy has secretly been giving you little puzzles to test your intelligence against chimpanzees in her lab?

Penny: What? She didn’t give me any puzzles.
Sheldon: Are you sure?

Penny: Son of a bitch.
Sheldon: Okay, that’s great. Now, let it go.

Penny: I can’t believe you were testing me against a chimp.
Sheldon: Well, excuse me, Amy was testing you. I was rooting for you. Good job on that banana box, by the way.

Penny: Why would she even do this?
Sheldon: She’s been conducting an experiment on apes where they’re given various puzzles to solve. I was surprised at the complexity of the puzzles and thought some humans wouldn’t be able to solve them. That’s when Amy said, want to make this interesting?

Penny: Make this interesting? You bet money on me?
Sheldon: No, no. We designed an experiment involving you. See? Now, isn’t that interesting?

Penny: It’s not interesting. It’s incredibly insulting.
Sheldon: Okay, maybe this will help. Imagine you’re holding a pen. Before you go too far, not a special pen with your initials engraved on it, that’ll make the next part really hard.

Penny: Oh, my, that’s it. Get out.
Sheldon: I don’t understand why you’re mad at me. You should be mad at Amy. Like I was this afternoon. Hey, look at that, I let it go.

Penny: Get out.
Sheldon: Penny?

Penny: What?
Sheldon: I think I left my pen in there.

Amy: Sheldon, open the door.
Sheldon: I can’t. I’m naked.

Amy: I just saw you.
Sheldon: Hang on.

Penny: Really? You couldn’t get it out?
Sheldon: Thank you.

Amy: That’s not true.
Sheldon: That sounds like us. I still don’t understand why you’re upset. You solved every puzzle faster than all of the chimps.

Bernadette: Can you please just let it go?
Sheldon: Oh, I can help you with that. Imagine you’re holding an ordinary pen. While your favourite pen is safe and secure in your pocket.

Howard: I don’t know.
Sheldon: May I say something?

Leonard: Not right now, Sheldon.
Sheldon: But I think it would be comforting.

Howard: No, it’s okay. What?
Sheldon: When I lost my own father, I didn’t have any friends to help me through it. You do.

Penny: Don’t take this away from me.
Sheldon: I didn’t care for her yelling. But now that I’m not going to hear it again, I’m sad.

Leonard: If you want, I can yell at you later.
Sheldon: It won’t be as good.

Amy: And then they finish it off by staring into each other’s eyes for four minutes.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s nonsense. I proclaimed my love for you. And the last time I looked into your eyes was when you thought you had conjunctivitis.

Penny: Oh, careful. You’re poking at the whole foundation of The Bachelor.
Sheldon: Yeah, but we don’t have to debate this. We’re scientists. We can conduct our own research. I propose that we imprison two street people and…

Amy: No.
Sheldon: You didn’t even let me finish.

Amy: Forget it.
Sheldon: So, you can experiment on all the apes you want. But I want to manipulate the emotions of two captive human beings, suddenly I’m the monster.

Raj: Why don’t you just do the test?
Sheldon: In the interest of science, I’d be willing to.

Penny: What? You’re okay with an experiment where you have to answer awkward questions about your innermost feelings?
Sheldon: Yes.

Amy: That’s what I said. Before I knew it, he pontificated his way right into my heart.
Sheldon: Uh, fun fact, pontificate comes from the Latin word pontifex, which means bridge builder or Pope.

Scene: The hallway. 
Sheldon: Just out of curiosity, Penny, if this experiment does make us fall in love, would you drive me to Lake Geneva, Wisconsin for Gary Con? It’s the only convention celebrating the life and work of Gary Gygax, the co-creator of Dungeons and Dragons.

Penny: You know what? I can honestly say if we fall in love, not only will I drive you there, I will buy you all the dragon T-shirts you want.
Sheldon: Okay, babe, let’s do this.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: You ready to begin?

Penny: Yup. Be right there. I assume you don’t want wine.
Sheldon: Correct. You’re not supposed to drink alcohol when operating heavy machinery.

Penny: What heavy machinery? Let’s just start.
Sheldon: Well, as a Texas gentleman, I’m inclined to say ladies first. Although, I’m concerned that level of politeness and charm might make you fall in love with me before the test even begins. Perhaps we should flip a coin. Or if you’re familiar with the rules of Rock, Paper, Scissors…

Penny: Question one. Given the choice of anyone in the world, whom would you want as a dinner guest?
Sheldon: Hmm. Living or dead?

Penny: Just says anyone in the world. I guess that means living.
Sheldon: Ah, that’s just as well. As much as I’d love to meet Euclid, inventor of the geometric proof, he probably wore sandals and I cannot look at toes during dinner. Oh, I know, the person I’d most like to have dinner with is myself.

Penny: You sure that’s your choice? ‘Cause I’ve had that dinner.
Sheldon: Well, I haven’t. And while they say never meet your heroes, I just don’t see how I could disappoint. Who would you choose?

Penny: Robert Downey, Jr.
Sheldon: Oh, I didn’t think of Iron Man. You know, maybe after myself and I have dinner, we can meet you two for dessert.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: What would constitute a perfect day for you?

Penny: Uh, well, I’d probably sleep in, do a little yoga, then lie on the beach while cute cabana boys brought me drinks and probably get a massage and then cap off the night with some dancing.
Sheldon: That’s it?

Penny: Yeah, why?
Sheldon: You didn’t mention Leonard.

Penny: He’s there.
Sheldon: I don’t think so. Leonard can’t stand yoga, the beach, massages or dancing.

Penny: Yeah, well, he brought a book, okay? What’s yours?
Sheldon: Uh, I wake up. Uh, I enjoy some French toast with butter and syrup. Uh, then a wormhole opens, and whisks me millions of years into the future where my towering intellect is used to save the last remnants of mankind from a predatory alien race.

Penny: Interesting, you didn’t mention Amy.
Sheldon: Who do you think made the French toast with butter and syrup?

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: If you could wake up tomorrow having gained any one quality or ability, what would it be?

Penny: Well, not to steal from the Bible, but turning water into wine sounds pretty good.
Sheldon: I don’t think you’re taking this seriously.

Penny: Come on, I’m just having some fun with you.
Sheldon: I believe what you’re doing is using humour to avoid vulnerability.

Penny: Fine. Honestly, if I could have one quality, I wish I could be as smart as you guys.
Sheldon: Ha. Keep dreaming.

Penny: Well, I can’t read people’s minds. Actually, that’s not true, I can read men’s minds, but only ’cause it’s usually the one thing.
Sheldon: When are we going to get robot eyes?

Penny: You’re all alike.
Sheldon: Well, what I meant was I often misinterpret how others are feeling. Like, I can’t always tell if someone is only joking or laughing at me. You know, like, uh, if they’re mad at something I’ve done or just in a bad mood. It, it’s incredibly stressful.

Penny: Really? You always seem so confident.
Sheldon: Well, I’m not. And if I could read people’s minds, life would be so much simpler.

Penny: Well, now I wish I had the ability to make that stuff easier for you.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Penny: Wow, I just felt this wave of affection for you.
Sheldon: You sure it’s not too much Bible juice?

Penny: If you were to die this evening with no opportunity to communicate with anyone, what would you most regret not having told someone?
Sheldon: So, it would be today? Huh. Well, I suppose there’s something satisfying about dying on my birthday.

Penny: Today’s your birthday?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Well, that’s always been a secret. Not even Amy knows.
Sheldon: Well, I don’t enjoy presents. And the thought of people jumping out and yelling surprise fills me with more dread than the words George Lucas Director’s Cut.

Penny: So, why did you finally tell me?
Sheldon: The point of the experiment is to be completely honest with each other.

Penny: Well, thank you for sharing it with me. I won’t tell anyone.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Penny: That is so funny. I never would have pegged you for a Pisces.
Sheldon: You’re making it difficult to love you right now.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: That’s it. We’re done with the questions.

Penny: All that’s left to do is stare into each other’s eyes for four minutes without talking.
Sheldon: Okay. Wait, hang on. Bladder check. We’re good to go.

Penny: You ready?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: And begin. This is kind of creepy.
Sheldon: We’re not supposed to talk during this part.

Penny: Sorry.
Sheldon: This is kind of creepy.

Penny: Do you want to stop? I know you have trouble with eye contact.
Sheldon: Well, you have a brown fleck in your right iris that looks like a Formula One race car. So I’m just concentrating on that. Plus, it’s easier around people that I’m comfortable with.

Penny: Aw, sweetie, I’m comfortable around you, too.
Sheldon: Of course you are, I’m warm and soothing. I’m like a human bowl of tomato soup.

Penny: I meant more like a little brother.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, I suppose I do think of you as a sister. And sometimes, a mother.

Penny: It’s getting creepy again.
Sheldon: What?

Penny: Just thinking about the day I met you and Leonard.
Sheldon: It was a Monday afternoon. You joined us for Indian food.

Penny: Can you believe it’s been eight years?
Sheldon: Yeah, and you’re still eating our food.

Penny: I can’t remember a time you guys weren’t in my life.
Sheldon: I remember it perfectly. But I have an eidetic memory. If you’re interested, I also remember how much you owe us for the food.

Penny: That’s it. That wasn’t so bad.
Sheldon: No, it wasn’t. Uh, now let’s tabulate the results of the experiment. I think it’s safe to say that you’re not in love with me and I’m not in love with you. And psychology has once again proved itself the doofus of the sciences.

Penny: Well, maybe. But I’m still glad we did it. I do feel closer to you.
Sheldon: And I, you. And yes, that’s how you say that. Yeah, so, given our newfound intimacy, I’d say we have some hard choices to make.

Penny: Like what?
Sheldon: Gary Con, do we fly or drive? Do we wear costumes? And if so, who gets to be Gary?

Scene: The hallway.
Sheldon: Thank you for walking me home.

Penny: I just want to make sure you get there safe.
Sheldon: Well, this is me. It’s been a very interesting evening.

All: SURPRISE!
Sheldon: Aah! And after I let you be Gary.

Penny: Hi.
Sheldon: Oh, good. You’re back.

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: As you know, Amy and I have been together a long time, and a lot of things I never thought possible now seem possible.

Leonard: Okay.
Sheldon: Do you want to say it?

Penny: This is why I’ve been saying we should keep champagne on ice.
Sheldon: Sarcasm?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Okay. That was tricky, ’cause when it comes to alcohol, she generally means business.

Amy: Thank you. Acquiring a joint pet is a big step for us.
Sheldon: No. It’s true. It means that we care so much about each other, there’s enough left over for an eight-ounce reptile.

Leonard: Why a turtle?
Sheldon: After much deliberation, we’ve determined that a turtle is the ideal pet. They don’t shed fur, they don’t make noise.

Amy: For Halloween, we can dress him as a cobblestone.
Sheldon: Yeah. And if he ever goes berserk, I know I can outrun him. Coincidentally, that’s also why I chose you as a roommate.

Scene: A pet store.
Sheldon: Oh, dear Lord. Oh, dear Lord.

Amy: It’s okay. You made it. We’re fine.
Sheldon: That was a lot of puppies.

Amy: Let’s forget about them, and pick ourselves out a nice turtle. Oh, how about this one up on the log?
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t know. He kind of looks like a jerk. How about this one?

Amy: Well, he’s barely moving. He looks half dead.
Sheldon: I know. I like him, too. Hi, little guy. How’d you like to come home with us? You’ll be living with me because we don’t live in the same house.

Amy: But that’s not your fault. Like you, we’re taking it ridiculously slow. You’ll stay with me when he’s at Comic-Con or away for work.
Sheldon: Or if they accept Daddy’s application to live on Mars.

Amy: What are you talking about?
Sheldon: Oh, there’s this company that’s attempting to establish a colony on Mars, and I applied to be among the first to go. What should we name him? You know, I came in thinking Seth, but he kind of looks Italian.

Amy: You applied for a mission to be a colonist on another planet, and couldn’t be bothered to tell me?
Sheldon: Would you have approved?

Amy: Of course not.
Sheldon: Well, based on your reaction, it looks like I made the right choice. Isn’t that right, Giuseppe?

Scene: The stairwell. 
Sheldon: I can’t believe you almost had me bring a wild animal into my home.

Amy: No one told you to poke the turtle’s face.
Sheldon: I was playing Got Your Nose. That’s how you get children to like you.

Amy: I’m surprised you even care if he likes you, since you’re planning on leaving the planet the first chance you get.
Sheldon: Ugh, this again. Amy, I’ve already had one new hole torn in my body today. I don’t need another one.

Amy: Sheldon, I know the odds of you even going to Mars are incredibly small, but it still hurts that you would volunteer for something that would take you away from me forever.
Sheldon: So you’re saying you wouldn’t leave me for the chance to be one of the first humans to colonize another planet?

Amy: I would at least mention it before filling out the application.
Sheldon: Huh, that’s exactly what Leonard, Wolowitz, Koothrappali, Bernadette and Penny said.

Amy: And who says you could even survive an interplanetary mission, anyway? You could barely survive a tiny turtle bite.
Sheldon: First of all, this has only made me stronger. But beyond that, all I did was fill out an application.

Amy: You know what? Go to Mars, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Is there anything I can do to cheer you up?

Amy: No. Forget it.
Sheldon: What if I play the Star Trek theme on my nose?

Amy: Please don’t.
Sheldon: Yep, you’re mad.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: I was going to make you red zinger, but since Mars is the red planet, I went with peppermint.

Amy: Why do you even want to do this?
Sheldon: Actually, as part of the application, I was required to make a short video answering that very question. You want to see it?

Amy: Can’t you just tell me?
Sheldon: But I made a video.

Sheldon (on video): But on a more serious note, the most important reason I want to go to Mars is that I believe, as a scientist, it’s my duty to push the boundaries of human knowledge forward. Now, I know that life on Mars will be difficult. But life here on Earth is no picnic. Also, picnics are no picnic. Where should we go for lunch? Oh, I know, the ground. In conclusion, thank you for considering me for this journey of a lifetime. To Mars.
Sheldon: Afterwards, Leonard blew his nose, and pie came out.

Amy: I think I’m gonna go home.
Sheldon: Why? I really don’t understand what’s happening here.

Amy: You know, Sheldon, at any other time, learning that you had plans to go live on Mars would be a slow news day. But a couple of hours ago, we were getting a turtle. And silly as it sounds, I thought that meant something.
Sheldon: Amy. Oh, why didn’t I give her Sleepy Time tea? Amy, wait. Getting a turtle meant a great deal to me, too.

Amy: Sure. Unless something better comes along.
Sheldon: Do you want me to withdraw my application?

Amy: What I want is for us to be planning our future together.
Sheldon: And in that future, are we on the same planet? Because I’ve seen people make the long-distance thing work.

Amy: We’re on the same planet.
Sheldon: Okay. Does that planet have to be Earth?

Amy: Are you asking me to go to Mars with you?
Sheldon: I am. Yeah, if I’m going to a barren, lifeless environment where the chances of survival are slim to none, I want you there with me. Why don’t we go back to the apartment, and fill out your application?

Amy: Okay. I suppose being the first people on a new planet would be incredibly exciting.
Sheldon: Oh, I know. We could be the first to plant a flag on Mars. We could be the first to watch Mars Attacks! on Mars. We could be the first to say good lord, what on Mars are you talking about?

Amy: You know, we could also be the first people to procreate on Mars.
Sheldon: You just can’t keep it in your space pants, can you?

Amy: Think about it. If we had a family there, our kids would be Martians.
Sheldon: They would, wouldn’t they? We could give them cool Martian names. And we could teach them about Martian history. Like, who planted those flags? And, uh, where did that copy of Mars Attacks! come from?

Amy: I guess we’ll have to make a new video together, as a couple.
Sheldon: Good idea. And since you’ve had such a rough day, I’m gonna let you throw the pie in Leonard’s face.

Scene: The lobby.
Sheldon: Two one six four two zero one nine eight nine. And that, little lady, is pi to a thousand places.

Amy: I’d say I’m sorry I asked, except I didn’t.
Sheldon: Oh, look, it’s the Scientific American that covered the paper Leonard and I wrote.

Amy: Oh, let me see.
Sheldon: I have mixed feelings about doing interviews. I like the part where I talk. I do not like the part where the other man talks.

Amy: Sheldon, this article doesn’t mention Leonard at all.
Sheldon: Well, that can’t be right.

Amy: It only refers to Dr. Cooper and his team. Did you even talk about him?
Sheldon: All I did was answer a few questions about the theory. And then expressed my gratitude that Scientific American doesn’t include any of those smelly perfume cards.

Amy: Poor Leonard.
Sheldon: Why? The theory he came up with just got mentioned in Scientific American. He ought to be thrilled.

Amy: He might not be.
Sheldon: Oh, maybe you’re right. He is kind of a lump.

Amy: Think about it. How would you feel if you were referred to as part of Leonard’s team?
Sheldon: Oh, I’d be incensed.

Amy: So you see what I’m getting at?
Sheldon: Squeaky wheel gets the grease?

Amy: No.
Sheldon: Grass is always greener?

Amy: Try again.
Sheldon: Well, I don’t know, we’re all Groot? Just tell me.

Amy: Leonard is as much a part of this paper as you are, and he was overlooked. He’s going to feel bad.
Sheldon: But it wasn’t my fault. I didn’t exclude him. And I didn’t write the article.

Amy: Remember that time you didn’t get picked to pull the sword out of the stone at Disneyland and they let that other kid do it?
Sheldon: Oh, that kid. Poor Leonard.

Amy: Exactly.
Sheldon: For the record, that kid was a terrible choice. If you cry when you drop your churro, you do not have what it takes to rule England.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Leonard? Have you ever noticed that only my name is on the cable bill?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Good, good. And your name is on the electric bill and mine isn’t. And I’m okay with that.

Leonard: Actually, your name is on the electric bill.
Sheldon: Oh, right. This is a disaster.

Leonard: I don’t even know what you’re talking about and I agree.
Sheldon: Okay, I have to tell you something, but you’re not going to like it.

Leonard: What’s going on?
Sheldon: An article was just published in Scientific American about our theory.

Leonard: Did they hate it?
Sheldon: No. No, they loved it. They, uh, couldn’t say enough nice things about it.

Leonard: So what’s the problem?
Sheldon: You know how the PennySaver only has my name…

Leonard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: They didn’t mention you in the article. Only me.

Leonard: Really?
Sheldon: I know. It’s not fair. Let the anger go, buddy. You just, you relax all your muscles. Except for your pubococcygeus and anal sphincter. Let’s keep those tight.

Leonard: Uh, that, that’s not necessary.
Sheldon: It is. They’re what hold back the urine and the faeces. Look, maybe, maybe you shouldn’t read it. It’ll only make you feel worse.

Leonard: Cooper and his team?
Sheldon: You should know I had nothing to do with that.

Leonard: Uh, at least they’re talking about the theory. I mean, that’s what’s important.
Sheldon: You know, you’re right. Yeah. You know, it’s like when Stan Lee and Steve Ditko created Spider-Man. Stan Lee may get all the credit, but Steve Ditko knows he was just as important. Even though Stan Lee gets to be in all the Marvel movies. And. and he’s far richer. And he’s a household name, you know? Whereas, you know, you say Ditko, and that sounds like a company that makes Dits.

Leonard: That’s not helping.
Sheldon: Well, I’d give more examples, but, well, everyone in your position’s so forgettable.

Leonard: Baby’s listening.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I spoke to the reporter at the magazine.

Leonard: What happened? Did you tell him it was my idea?
Sheldon: I did.

Leonard: Thank you. What did he say?
Sheldon: He said they made the editorial decision to only cite the lead scientist.

Penny: You know, for an extra four bucks, I can have this thing here tomorrow.
Sheldon: Well, I know it was your idea, but the reporter said he’s been following my work for a while, and the only reason they even mentioned it in the magazine is ’cause my name is on it.

Leonard: If you’re trying to make me feel better, it’s not working.
Sheldon: Well then what if I told you that I added your name to the cable bill?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: Oh. That’s just as well. They had me on hold for 20 minutes and I hung up. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard? Also, Wolowitz invited us all to dinner, so I’m ready whenever you are.

Scene: Amy’s car.
Sheldon: All he had was an idea.

Amy: Well, that is an important part.
Sheldon: Oh, please. I have ideas all day long. Reverse SeaWorld where dolphins are allowed to pet people. A new clothing size between medium and large called Marge. Snow White retold from the point of view of Sneezy. Why won’t Doc prescribe him something? We finally find out.

Amy: But Leonard’s idea was good.
Sheldon: Fine. Then Grumpy, what’s he so grumpy about? Maybe his girlfriend won’t take his side.

Scene: Amy’s car.
Sheldon: Is it my fault I have a much bigger reputation than he does?

Amy: It’s not your fault.
Sheldon: Is it my fault that my name came first on the paper alphabetically?

Amy: Not your fault.
Sheldon: Is it my fault that when the reporter cited me as the lead scientist I didn’t correct him?

Stuart: And there goes the mood.
Sheldon: Hi. Hello. Oh, and a special hello to Leonard, who needs to be mentioned by name.

Leonard: Subtle.
Sheldon: But you got it, right?

Leonard: Fine.
Sheldon: Of course.

Amy: All these bright people sitting around a table by candlelight. Feels like we could be an 18th century French salon.
Sheldon: Indeed. Penny, a salon is a gathering where intellectuals entertained each other with sparkling conversations about issues of the day.

Amy: Sheldon, The View is a daytime talk show hosted by women.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m aware. It features Whoopi Goldberg. She played Guinan on Star Trek: Next Gen. Penny, Next Gen refers to Star Trek…

Penny: Okay, new salon topic. Salons, dumb thing from a long time ago or interesting thing made dumb by talking about superheroes? Discuss.
Sheldon: I don’t believe it matters what the topic is. What’s crucial for a salon is that we conduct the discussion in an elevated and insightful way. It’s all about the execution.

Bernadette: Oh, that’s fine.
Sheldon: Yeah, good for you, Leonard. That’s a lovely little notion. Kind of like, I wish I could talk to my uncle in Chicago. Yeah, now stand back while I invent the telephone. Hello? Oh, hold on. Leonard, it’s your uncle. He says you just got burned.

Howard: Well, I guess, as an engineer, I lean towards execution. I spend my days trying to take ideas and make them real.
Sheldon: Well said, old chap. I thought eloquence had died, here it stands before us. Starting today, it’ll go Gettysburg Address, I have a dream, and what he just said.

Leonard: Oh, now he’s a genius? All you ever do is make fun of him and engineering.
Sheldon: Leonard, please. His mother just died.

Leonard: You’re being ridiculous.
Sheldon: Yeah, so are you.

Penny: Guys, if I wanted to hear people be bitchy, I’d go to my real salon.
Sheldon: Leonard, lots of people could’ve had that idea, but very few people could’ve worked out the math the way I did.

Leonard: Lots of people also didn’t have that idea, like everyone in the entire world except for me.
Sheldon: Oh, well, apparently Leonard thinks he’s better than everyone in the whole world, including those fighting for our freedom. Yeah, well, I don’t know about you, but I support our boys overseas.

Amy: And girls.
Sheldon: Hey, you already ruined Thor, give it a rest.

Leonard: So I’m just supposed to be okay with you hogging all the credit?
Sheldon: I didn’t hog anything. Unlike you and that weird lasagna with raisins in it.

Bernadette: Hey. Sheldon, Leonard, living room, right now!
Sheldon: She said my name first, that must kill you.

Howard: It’s why my people wandered the desert for 40 years. Took that long to walk it off.
Sheldon: You see, Penny, the Israelites were in the desert…

Leonard: Right now, I’m just trying to burp without throwing up.
Sheldon: Hang on. Physics Today mentioned the paper.

Amy: Who cares? Did they mention Leonard?
Sheldon: They did.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Leonard, I’ve been working on an opening joke for our lecture at Berkeley.

Leonard: Oh, I like to laugh. But say it anyway.
Sheldon: Okay, um, what do you say to a graduate of the UC Berkeley physics department? I’ll have fries with that. Because his education hasn’t prepared him for a career in the sciences.

Amy: Are you all set for your trip?
Sheldon: Yeah, I think so. I just restocked the old PRK.

Leonard: Public restroom kit. Everything a boy needs for making pee pee in new and strange places.
Sheldon: I don’t see what’s crazy about bringing a backpack with your own toilet paper and Purell.

Leonard: Keep going.
Sheldon: And rubber gloves, uh, air freshener. Um, noise-cancelling headphones. Oh, danger whistle. Um, pepper spray. Ooh, a multi-language occupied sign. Uh, let’s see, we have seat protectors, uh, booties for my shoes, a clothespin for my nose. Oh, and a mirror on a stick, so I can make sure the person in the stall next to me isn’t some kind of weirdo.

Scene: Leonard’s car.
Sheldon: Would you like to play a physics car game I invented called I Can’t Spy? It’s all the nail-biting tension of I Spy but the added fun of subatomic particles and waves outside the visible spectrum.

Leonard: If it’s half as much fun as One Times Ten to the Fourth Bottles of Beer on the Wall, I’m in.
Sheldon: I’ll begin. Uh, I can’t spy with my little eye something passing right through us.

Leonard: That soy Frappuccino I had.
Sheldon: Will you please play the game? I can’t spy with my little eye something passing right through us.

Leonard: I don’t know, um, if 65 billion solar neutrinos pass through a square centimetre every second, given the surface area of this car is about 60,000 square centimetres, that means 3.9 times ten to the 15th solar neutrinos?
Sheldon: I don’t want to play anymore.

Leonard: We haven’t been on a road trip in a while. This is fun.
Sheldon: We get it, you won the game. Stop bragging.

Leonard: No, listen, we wrote a paper together. Now we get to go to a university and talk about it? That’s pretty cool.
Sheldon: I suppose it is. In fact, if you’d like to celebrate with a little music, I’d be okay with that.

Leonard: What? This road trip just got crazy.
Sheldon: Play that funky music, white boy.

Leonard: I’m surprised you know that reference.
Sheldon: What reference?

Scene: Leonard’s car. “Play that funky music, white boy” is playing on the stereo.
Sheldon: So they’re requesting that the white boy play the funky music, yes?

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: And this music we’re listening to right now is funky as well?

Leonard: Sure.
Sheldon: Let me ask you this. Do you think this song is the music the white boy ultimately plays?

Leonard: It could be.
Sheldon: So it’s like the musical equivalent of Russell’s Paradox, the question of whether the set of all sets that don’t contain themselves as members contains itself?

Leonard: Exactly.
Sheldon: Well then I hate it. Music should just be fun.

Leonard: Making great time. Gonna be there pretty early.
Sheldon: Will our hotel room be ready?

Leonard: I doubt it.
Sheldon: Aren’t you worried that sitting in the lobby for a long period of time might attract the attention of the hotel detective?

Leonard: If we do, we’ll just tell him to hit the bricks, see?
Sheldon: Seems a little confrontational, but all right. You know, we won’t be very far from Skywalker Ranch.

Leonard: Oh, that’s true. It’s not like we can get in there.
Sheldon: Why not?

Leonard: I don’t think George Lucas put his headquarters in the middle of nowhere because he wanted people dropping in.
Sheldon: Yoda’s swamp was in the middle of nowhere. Tatooine was in the middle of nowhere. Hoth was in the middle of nowhere. That’s code, Leonard. He wants us to drop in.

Leonard: We do have time. I mean, we could drive by and just look at it.
Sheldon: Yes. Oh, I’m so excited. And I just can’t hide it.

Leonard: I’m about to lose control, and I think I like it.
Sheldon: What are you talking about?

Scene: Leonard’s car. 
Sheldon: There it is. It’s just a gate. On a road.

Leonard: Wasn’t even that hard to find.
Sheldon: This is so amazing.

Leonard: I know. You want to get a picture?
Sheldon: I want more than a picture. I want to go in.

Leonard: Well, so do I, but they’ll never let us.
Sheldon: Is that the attitude that helped you get Penny?

Leonard: No, but I don’t have three years to make that gate feel sorry for me.
Sheldon: There’s a speaker box. Drive up, push the button, and let’s see what happens.

Leonard: Okay, yeah. What do we have to lose? I’m a little nervous.
Sheldon: Well, get over it. Confidence is key in these situations.

Leonard: Right.
Sheldon: You pushed it, are you out of your mind?

Leonard: Um, uh, uh, uh, we don’t have an appointment, and, and we don’t belong here, but we, we’re, like, crazy-big fans. I mean uh, buh, buh, crazy for Star Wars crazy, not crazy like we have a backpack full of duct tape, although we do have a backpack that you really don’t want to look in.
Sheldon: You’re blowing it. We want to meet George Lucas and become his friends and play with him.

Scene: The same, further inside the ranch. 
Sheldon: All right, we’ve defeated the first challenge. Now we must steel ourselves to face the monster who defends the gate.

Leonard: We’re trying to get past a security guard, not rescue Zelda.
Sheldon: I think what really needs to be rescued is your sense of whimsy, but one quest at a time. So what’s the plan?

Leonard: Uh, I’m just gonna be honest with the guy.
Sheldon: Honesty will never get us in.

Leonard: Well, what’s your plan?
Sheldon: All right, my plan is predicated on the assumption that they have a nurse’s office and your willingness to be lightly stabbed.

Leonard: Uh, I’m just gonna tell you the truth.
Sheldon: Oh, you are killing me.

Security Guard: Sorry, guys, we get this a lot. Can’t let you in.
Sheldon: What if I told you that I was the voice of Yoda? A recording session I must attend.

Leonard: Thank you so much. See? Maybe honesty is the best… What are you doing?
Sheldon: Shedding the yoke of my oppressors, you blind, sad little man.

Voice: Copy.
Sheldon: I can see the ranch, Leonard. Oh, it’s rustic, it’s lovely. I’d take a picture, but people are chasing me. I’m gonna make it. I’m gonna make it. They have Tasers, but they wouldn’t dare use… Aaaaaaagh!

Scene: An office in Skywalker Ranch. 
Sheldon: Do you think they’re gonna call the police?

Leonard: I don’t know. Maybe they’ll call Imperial Officers to take us to a holding cell on the Death Star.
Sheldon: Oh, I think that’s below the pay grade of an Imperial Officer. Stormtroopers are really the ones who…

Leonard: Uh-huh, I’m normally very nice, but you shut up, too.
Sheldon: So, what are you in for?

Nerdy Guy: Honestly, I just wanted to meet Mr. Lucas and say thank you. You know, growing up, the movies had such an impact on my life. I never really fit in anywhere. Till I discovered the worlds he created and finally found a place where I belong.
Sheldon: But why are you here?

Nerdy Guy: Oh, I, uh, I hopped a fence, and they caught me in the sculpture gallery making out with a Chewbacca statue.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Leonard, they have a sculpture gallery.

Security Guard: No, you’re not going anywhere, kissy face. Let’s go. I have to take your picture to post at the guard gate.
Sheldon: Uh, one question about that picture. Can it be with George Lucas? Ooh, grumpy you are.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: Are you still mad at me?

Leonard: Yes, we missed our lecture, we were almost arrested, and you got me locked in a room with a man who forced his tongue down the throat of a stuffed Wookiee.
Sheldon: Boy, some people are just glass-half-empty.

Leonard: The glass is empty, Sheldon. It’s completely empty. If you gave that glass to a man who was dying of thirst, he would be dead, do you know why?
Sheldon: Before I answer, was he a smoker? I think you’re looking at this all wrong.

Leonard: Fine, then tell me how I should be looking at it.
Sheldon: Well, not only did we go to Skywalker Ranch, we got in. And no one we know can say that. And for all the times you find me irritating, today you got to watch someone shoot me with a Taser.

Leonard: That part was pretty good.
Sheldon: See?

Leonard: You did flop around a lot.
Sheldon: I’ll take your word for it. I was too busy trying not to defecate.

Leonard: You know, when they were escorting us to the detaining room, I looked through a door, and I’m pretty sure I saw a display case with the Ark of the Covenant.
Sheldon: That’s amazing.

Leonard: I know.
Sheldon: And I saw Jabba the Hutt riding by on a motorcycle. Although that was right after the Tasing, so who can say for sure?

Leonard: I guess this could count as an adventure.
Sheldon: It was. And even though we’re not allowed back there, they can never take today away from us. Unlike my sense of smell, which hasn’t returned since the Tasing. No, I got nothing.

Scene: Amy’s bedroom. 
Sheldon: Amy, the Daleks are right on my tail, quick, we need to reset the time circuits. Oh, no, I left my sonic screwdriver behind.

Howard: I’m sorry, do you mean the guy or the juy?
Sheldon: Well, I’ll give you three guesses why I’m so irritated.

Howard: Something happened different from the way you wanted it.
Sheldon: I guess news travels fast. It’s true, a select group of scientists was invited to a weekend symposium at a former home of Richard Feynman, and I wasn’t included.

Howard: Yeah, I bet you anything it’s just ’cause you’re a pain in the ass.
Sheldon: You’re just saying that to make me feel better.

Leonard: Look, you can spend the rest of the day being bitter about this.
Sheldon: Agreed.

Amy: Can you please pass the salt?
Sheldon: Sure. It’s not like I was invited to Richard Feynman’s house and have anything better to do.

Amy: Is this how the rest of the night’s going to be?
Sheldon: I don’t know the future. Do you think there’s a chance that an asteroid could hit the Earth, destroying Feynman’s house and everyone in it?

Amy: No, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Then buckle up, you’re in for a cranky night.

Amy: According to the codicil of the Relationship Agreement which you insisted upon, we’re not allowed to pout or be moody on date night.
Sheldon: You know I just put that in because of uterus stuff.

Amy: Well, it applies to you, too.
Sheldon: I was afraid you might bring this up, so I have a work-around. There you go. As far as you’re concerned, I’m smiling. Although, I must admit, I’m smiling a little bit at the moment because this loophole is so brilliant.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Do you think there comes a point in life when it stops feeling bad to be left out of things?

Amy: Probably not. It’s an evolutionary advantage to be included in group activities.
Sheldon: You know what? I used to be a fan of evolution, but I’ve since evolved, and now I think it’s dumb.

Amy: Being left out is a terrible feeling. No one understands that better than I do.
Sheldon: Hey, look at that. Even in your example, you’re all by yourself.

Amy: When there was a lice epidemic at my school, everybody got it except me. I tried to fool everyone by sprinkling sugar in my hair, but I just got attacked by bees.
Sheldon: I can just picture them all right now at Feynman’s house, probably discussing Schrodinger and at the same time, not discussing Schrodinger. See? They’re missing out on hilarious jokes like that.

Amy: And at the same time, not.
Sheldon: It reminds me of when my stupid brother and sister would build forts in the living room and wouldn’t let me in. I hated that so much.

Amy: You know, there’s nothing I can do about getting you invited to the symposium, but if you wanted, we could build a fort.
Sheldon: Isn’t that a little juvenile?

Amy: More juvenile than this?
Sheldon: I’ll get the blankets. You Google how to have childlike fun.

Amy: How’s it going, Sheldon?
Sheldon: Wonderful. I just finished hanging the lights.

Amy: Can I come in?
Sheldon: Yes, oh, but enter through the side. Batman is a load-bearing blanket.

Amy: Amazing.
Sheldon: I know. This isn’t the printout. This is my real face.

Amy: What are we doing? This is a fort. Let’s sit on the floor.
Sheldon: Roughing it? Okay. Everything looks so big from down here. This must be how Leonard feels.

Scene: The fort.
Sheldon: Okay, so the final four forts in the first annual best fort ever contest, or fort off, are, Fort Knox, Fort Ticonderoga, Fort Sumter and Fort Cozy McBlanket.

Amy: I’d say, Knox over Ticonderoga, ’cause it’s got the gold.
Sheldon: Mm-hmm.

Amy: And McBlanket over Sumter ’cause it has a higher thread count. Oh. Ten o’clock. Date night’s over.
Sheldon: Wait, no. We haven’t picked a winner.

Amy: We both know this one’s gonna win.
Sheldon: Well, of course we do. Fort Knox doesn’t have a secret physics lending library.

Amy: Come on, I’ll help you take this down.
Sheldon: Well, wait. What if, just this once, we suspend the date night parameters and you stay later?

Amy: Well, as long as we’re suspending the parameters, I could stay really late and we could have our first sleepover.
Sheldon: That’s a big step.

Amy: It’s a big fort.
Sheldon: Very well. I will agree to a family-friendly, G-rated, boy-girl sleepover.

Amy: PG. Some scenes may be too intense for younger viewers.
Sheldon: G-rated, with a warning for families with babies and toddlers.

Amy: You got yourself a sleepover.
Sheldon: Do you need to borrow a toothbrush or pajamas?

Amy: Would it alarm you to know that I hid those things here two years ago just in case this ever came up?
Sheldon: It would, but you know how much I admire preparedness. How did you know we’d be in the living room?

Leonard: Hello? What is this?
Sheldon: We built a fort.

Leonard: Okay. Well, you kids have fun. I’m gonna go to sleep.
Sheldon: Well, Leonard, don’t you want to see the inside of the fort?

Leonard: Yeah, I’m good.
Sheldon: Oh, come on. I really wanted to tell someone they can’t come in.

Leonard: Okay, fine. Sheldon, may I please visit your fort?
Sheldon: I want to say no, but it’s too glorious. Get in here.

Amy: Okay, have a seat on the floor.
Sheldon: Not there. That’s my spot.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Hey, would you like to hear some songs I’ve rewritten to get children interested in the hard sciences?

Howard: Yeah. Well, I like music, I like science, I like making fun of Sheldon. Hit it.
Sheldon: There was a scientist who had a theory and James Clerk Maxwell was his name-o. J-A-M-E-S, C-L-E-R-K space M-A-X-W-E-L-L, And James Clerk Maxwell was his name-o. There was a scientist who had a theory and James Clerk Maxwell was his name-o, A-M-E-S…

Leonard: Uh, okay, okay. Uh, we, we get it.
Sheldon: Perhaps you’d prefer this one. The itsy bitsy spider is not an insect at all, because it haseight legs and two body parts.

Leonard: That’s pretty cool, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Thank you. Do either of you know Beyoncé? I’d love her to get behind it.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Oh. When I encountered alien life, I discovered that the key thing was not to sit in its spot.
Sheldon: All right, you can’t breathe our air without an inhaler, he’s allergic to Earth nuts, but I’m the alien.

Raj: Anyway, I’m among a handful of scientists that have been asked to submit a design proposal for the message and its delivery system.
Sheldon: Excellent.

Leonard: Are you kidding? Yes. What did you have in mind?
Sheldon: I’ll tell you exactly what you should do, avoid the presumption of the Terran sensory input paradigm.

Howard: Yeah, absolutely. You need a device capable of delivering information across a wide range of perceptual modalities.
Sheldon: Any intelligent organism would at the very least need the ability to locate the position of objects in space. So the ideal interstellar lingua franca would be haptic.

Penny: (Knock, knock, knock) Sheldon. (Knock, knock, knock) Sheldon. (Knock, knock, knock) Sheldon.
Sheldon: I bet that started off as a joke, but by the third one you realized there was something strangely enjoyable about it.

Penny: Yeah, I kind of want to do it again.
Sheldon: I don’t recommend it. You’ll be doing it the rest of your life. Anyway, if you’re looking for Leonard, he’s with Koothrappali.

Penny: Uh, no, I actually came to talk to you.
Sheldon: How nice. Here are some topics that interest me, quantum mechanics, trains, flags.

Penny: No, no. It’s about my acting career.
Sheldon: Oh, sorry. That’s not on the list.

Penny: Well.
Sheldon: Oh, wait. No. How about we split the difference and discuss why Austria was an archduchy and not just a regular duchy.

Penny: Okay, look, here’s the thing. I like pharmaceutical sales, it’s going great, but I have an audition for a movie, and if I get it, it could screw everything up.
Sheldon: Hmm. I know exactly what you should do. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you.

Penny: Well, why?
Sheldon: I’m attempting to turn over a new leaf. Earlier today, it was pointed out to me that I tend to force my ideas on people.

Penny: You’re really not gonna tell me?
Sheldon: No, that train has left the station. Now, we can play this one of two ways. You can say, trains, tell me more, or you can just look at me like that and I’ll start.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: So, often on the front of the locomotive is a large iron wedge for clearing objects off the tracks. Now, while commonly known as a cowcatcher, I prefer the more accurate cow exploder.

Penny: Okay. Sheldon, let me ask you a question.
Sheldon: Mmm.

Penny: If I was at a train station and one train could take me to my current job and the other train could take me to an audition for a movie, which train should I get on?
Sheldon: Are you using trains to trick me into giving you advice?

Penny: No.
Sheldon: All right, then. You should take a third train where you audition for the movie but hold off on making a career decision until you have more information.

Penny: Oh. You’re right. I’m worried about something that hasn’t even happened yet. Huh. You are a wise man.
Sheldon: Well, Penny, who’s smarter, the wise man or the person who comes to him for advice?

Penny: Oh, I guess you’re right. Maybe it is the person who asks.
Sheldon: No, it’s the wise man. That’s why he’s called the wise man. You know how I know that? I’m the wise man.

Penny: I’m sorry. What was I thinking?
Sheldon: Uh, just out of curiosity, why didn’t you ask Leonard for advice about this?

Penny: ‘Cause I already know what he’ll say. Wah, wah, wah, you shouldn’t do it.
Sheldon: Ah, it’s just like he’s here.

Howard: Hang on. Not that your song isn’t terrible, it is. but how do you mention bats and leave out sonar?
Sheldon: You didn’t let me finish. And also regarding the bat, it has sonar.

Howard: Well, well, well, did you hear that, Sheldon?
Sheldon: I’m sorry. I was trying to think of what rhymes with nose of the aardvark.

Leonard: We want you back on the project with us.
Sheldon: Well, well, well, did you hear that, Howard?

Raj: It wasn’t, so are you in?
Sheldon: Certainly.

Leonard: Great. Now that we’re all on the same page, let’s get together tonight and work on it.
Sheldon: Get together tonight? Leonard, stop trying to control everything, and give poor Raj a chance to come up with what we should do. Go ahead, Raj.

Raj: Okay, I think we should do it right now.
Sheldon: Tonight works better for me.

Raj: So, I’d like to try a technique where no one gets steamrolled. When you talk, instead of bringing up a new idea, respect what was just said by building on it.
Sheldon: Uh, building on that, we should order dinner.

Raj: Hang on. Building on what Leonard said, no one built on what I said.
Sheldon: Building on building on that, there’s a new build-your-own pizza place on Colorado.

Howard: I saw the menu. They have soy cheese.
Sheldon: Bah, you didn’t say building on. You’re out.

Raj: Yeah, you’re missing the point, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re out, and you’re out. I win. Who wants pizza?

Howard: The plaque they sent up on the Pioneer probe had a drawing of a naked man and woman on it.
Sheldon: Yeah, I never cared for that. It’s advertising to predator races just how soft and squishy we are.

Leonard: Squeeze yourself.
Sheldon: Oh, don’t be offended. You know, of the four of us, you have the most veal-like consistency.

Raj: Oh, you mean passive-aggressive like posting pictures of you and your wife eating cosmopolitan balls that you know belong in my mouth?
Sheldon: Perhaps Howard meant passive-aggressive like asking our group to help on your project, and then only choosing Leonard.

Leonard: What about when we went to Comic-Con and dressed like Jabba the Hutt? You got to be Jabba’s head, and I got to be his fat slug butt.
Sheldon: We looked great.

Howard: You know what? You’re right. I should have asked you.
Sheldon: Yeah, and if he does ask you, go. It’s amazing.

Howard: Okay, and if we’re talking about being left out of things, you guys went to Skywalker Ranch without us.
Sheldon: Oh, I recommend that, too. That was a magical experience.

Leonard: Wait a minute. Sheldon spent a whole day with James Earl Jones and never told any of us.
Sheldon: I sure did. Oh, my goodness. Well, from Jabba’s head to ice cream with Darth Vader, I’m having a heck of a ride. Yeah, look, clearly, good things happen when I’m in charge. Now, why don’t you boys step aside, let me knock this project out?

Leonard: Sheldon, you’re not in charge. Raj is in charge.
Sheldon: Leonard, who’s really in charge? The person in charge, or those who put him in charge?

Raj: He’s right. If you think about it, we’re all in charge.
Sheldon: No, the guy in charge is in ch… why is everyone so bad at these?

Penny: Uh, yeah, I just need to throw in a few last minute things, you know, makeup, underwear, clothes.
Sheldon: If your bathroom floor counts as a carry-on, you’re packed.

Leonard: Nope. It’s pretty exciting.
Sheldon: Aren’t you afraid of being blinded?

Leonard: How would I be blinded?
Sheldon: At the end of the ceremony, all the students throw those pointy hats in the air. It’s all pomp and circumstance until someone loses an eye.

Leonard: I’ll take my chances.
Sheldon: Fine. I wonder if they make I told you so cards in braille.

Amy: With a beautiful girl on your arm.
Sheldon: And a pointy hat sticking out of your eyeball.

Howard: Okay, the WiFi extender is on, the camera’s on, they’re both on the same network. We should be getting an image.
Sheldon: All I see is a black screen. And my own reflection. I look sad.

Howard: Maybe we should recalibrate it.
Sheldon: All right.

Howard: Step one, rapidly flip the calibration switch from the fully up to the fully down positions for at least ten times.
Sheldon: It actually says at least?

Howard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Why would they say at least? Is it ten toggles? Is it a hundred toggles? You know? Is it a thousand toggles? Ten thousand toggles? A hundred thousand toggles?

Howard: Sheldon.
Sheldon: You see where I’m going with this.

Howard: Just flip the switch until the lights on the drone change to solid yellow.
Sheldon: All right, that seems simple enough. Initiating calibration sequence. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Well, I suppose ten is technically at least ten. But they’re still getting at least one angry letter.

Howard: Now I rotate it horizontally on its centre axis until the lights turn green.
Sheldon: Initiating rotation sequence. Don’t look at me, initiate. What does red and yellow mean?

Howard: It means the calibration failed. We have to start over.
Sheldon: Oh. Very well. Re-initiating calibration sequence. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten… eleven. It’s a good thing I didn’t send that letter.

Howard: No red and yellow, no red and yellow.
Sheldon: Yay.

Howard: It’s green.
Sheldon: We did it. Oh, if it’s this much fun to rotate, imagine when we fly it.

Howard: Okay, now all I have to do is rotate it vertically until the lights turn off.
Sheldon: Oh, no.

Howard: Oh. All right, playtime’s over. Let’s open this baby up.
Sheldon: Won’t that void the warranty?

Howard: Boy, oh, boy, that’s a lot of pieces.
Sheldon: You know what they all do, right?

Howard: Yes, of course.
Sheldon: What about this one?

Howard: Well, I, how familiar are you with miniaturized integrated logic circuits?
Sheldon: Not very.

Howard: That right there is a miniaturized integrated logic circuit.
Sheldon: So, can you get it working?

Howard: I’m an MIT-trained engineer. I’ve built components for the space station.
Sheldon: I thought the zero-gravity toilet didn’t work.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Raj: I have to return the helicopter. My father… What did you do?
Sheldon: Well, don’t worry. He went to MIT. He can solve any problem, as long as it doesn’t originate in a Russian man’s colon.

Raj: No, you have to put this back together right now, so I can return it.
Sheldon: You can’t return it. Howard wiped his bottom with the warranty.

Raj: What?
Sheldon: I think metaphorically. But he was in the bathroom for a while.

Howard: Okay, I think I’ve narrowed it down to a faulty pin on the onboard communication chip.
Sheldon: Very impressive. You know, when you’re done with that, can you look at this? It doesn’t make smoke anymore.

Howard: One toy at a time.
Sheldon: Mm. Sorry. Ah, maybe it’s for the best. I hear locomotive smoke is the second leading cause of death among train aficionados.

Howard: Suicide.
Sheldon: Wrong. Obesity.

Howard: It’s not about the money. It’s about solving a problem. It’s why I became an engineer. It’s what I like to do, it’s what I’m trained to do. It’s who I am.
Sheldon: Oh, look at you, the little engineer that could.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Whoa.

Howard: Ha-ha.
Sheldon: You call tech support.

Howard: All right, the power supply is reconnected. I think we’re back in business. Let’s just run a few tests before we take it outside. Sheldon, we got WiFi?
Sheldon: Check.

Howard: Battery charged?
Sheldon: Check.

Together: Four, three, two, one.
Sheldon: That’s what my train used to do.

Howard: What happened to me? When did I become an old man baffled by modern technology? Next thing you know, I’ll be hitching my pants up to my armpits and complaining about the awful music the kids are listening to.
Sheldon: It is awful, isn’t it? Listen to that noise.

Howard: Well, I’m not flying it.
Sheldon: Then who is?

Howard: I don’t know. Must be getting a WiFi signal from somewhere else.
Sheldon: Initiate landing sequence. Initiate landing sequence. Hey, the camera’s working. Oh, look, it’s me.

Tech Support Guy: Tech Support, can I help you?
Sheldon: Yes, it’s a robot uprising. Call the police.

Penny: Oh, sweetie, it was the best speech I…
Sheldon: Don’t worry, everyone in here is safe.

Amy: It’s so nice both of your moms are coming in to see you guys get an award.
Sheldon: Well, my mother’s been there for every honour I’ve won since I beat out my twin sister for the did it on the potty trophy. How does this look?

Amy: Sure, his mom gets roses. When I want them, they’re a bouquet of severed plant genitals.
Sheldon: You act like I didn’t get you that mushroom log on Valentine’s Day.

Leonard: Uh, I don’t know. They’re pretty different.
Sheldon: Maybe they’ll be best friends. One of them is brilliant, one is sweet and simple. Sound familiar?

Mrs Cooper: Shelly, I’m so proud of you and Leonard for getting this award.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you, Mother.

Mrs Cooper: I tried to read your paper, but it was very hard for me to understand.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s quite straightforward, actually. It describes a new model of the universe that conceptualizes it as the surface of an n-dimensional superfluid.

Mrs Cooper: Interesting. You can believe that, but God filling an ark with animals two-by-two is nonsense.
Sheldon: What did they feed the lions, Mother?

Mrs Cooper: The floating bodies of drowned sinners, of course.
Sheldon: Listen, Leonard’s mom is a renowned psychiatrist and woman of science. Can you please keep the Bible babble to yourself while she’s here?

Mrs Cooper: Are you ashamed of me?
Sheldon: Of course not. I love you. I’m just embarrassed by the things you believe, do and say.

Leonard: Hey, look who’s here.
Sheldon: Oh, Doctor Hofstadter, it’s so good to see you again.

Dr Hofstadter: Likewise. I read your paper, it was very impressive.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you.

Leonard: That’s so sweet, you think I have self-esteem.
Sheldon: Doctor Hofstadter, I want you to meet my mother, Mary.

Dr Hofstadter: Oh, you mean this son. Uh, sure, he’s terrific.
Sheldon: Beverly, would you like to see the math I worked out to support our hypothesis?

Dr Hofstadter: Calm down, dear. Mary, I’m curious. When did you first realize that your son had such a remarkable mind?
Sheldon: Ooh, good question. Everyone loves stories about Sheldon Cooper, boy genius.

Mrs Cooper: Well, I would have to say when he was 13 and tried to build a nuclear reactor in the tool shed.
Sheldon: Ooh, this is a good one.

Mrs Cooper: Now, the first thing you have to know about Shelly is ever since he was a little boy, he was always concerned with the well-being of others. And he didn’t think that it was fair for people to pay for electricity, so he was gonna power the entire town for free.
Sheldon: Tell her about the uranium. Tell her about the uranium.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, well. Oh, this is adorable. When he arranged to get some yellowcake from Chad, I thought he was talking about Twinkies from one of his friends.
Sheldon: But I wasn’t. ‘Cause I didn’t have any friends.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, he was a handful.
Sheldon: I was a handful.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: Oh, and here’s a picture of me receiving my bachelor of science degree.

Dr Hofstadter: You don’t look very happy.
Sheldon: Well, I had just begun puberty. It was figuratively and literally one of the hairiest moments of my life.

Mrs Cooper: Shelly does not like change.
Sheldon: Oh, true. But all the clenching in the world will not keep testicles in your abdomen.

Penny: Sorry, I forgot.
Sheldon: You remember my mother.

Dr Hofstadter: Oh, lovely. Must have been very expensive.
Sheldon: Oh, no, not at all. No, we, uh, found a place online that, uh, repurposes diamond drill bits.

Leonard: We did not. That’s not true. Can I speak to you alone for a second?
Sheldon: Oh, sure.

Leonard: It came from Tiffany’s.
Sheldon: You mean the box, right?

Penny: Really doesn’t matter to me how much he spent on the ring. I think.
Sheldon: Did I misspeak about the ring?

Leonard: Yes, and we’ll get back to that. But, uh, even with your mother here, you are deliberately hogging all the attention from my mom. You’re like one of those elephant seal pups that steals the milk from two mothers.
Sheldon: Do you mean what marine biologists refer to as super weaning?

Leonard: Yes, you are a super weaner.
Sheldon: Well, now I have to correct you. As a bit of an elephant seal buff, the more accurate comparison would be when two mother seals actively seek to nourish the same pup. So I believe the term you’re looking for is a double mother suckler.

Leonard: Yeah, you’re right. That is the term I’m looking for. You are a dirty double mother suckler.
Sheldon: Okay, well, now that we have the terminology straightened out. How dare you.

Penny: Why don’t we all stop hitting ourselves and talk about something safe, you know, like shoes or how cute little Chinese babies are.
Sheldon: It is not my fault that your mother likes me better than she likes you.

Dr Hofstadter: I’m terribly sorry that I upset your mother.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s all right. She’ll forgive you. She has to or she goes to hell.

Dr Hofstadter: I can’t help but notice how her unconditional love for you is diametrically opposed to my own parenting strategies.
Sheldon: Well, you doled out affection as a reward for achievement, a proven way to raise a child. Or train a rat.

Dr Hofstadter: But look how well you turned out.
Sheldon: I’d feign modesty at this point, but who would believe me? Still, you need to consider how successful Leonard’s brother and sister are.

Dr Hofstadter: I suppose.
Sheldon: While my brother and sister are mouth-breathing idiots.

Dr Hofstadter: Do you suppose you would’ve flourished more in a reward-based environment?
Sheldon: Perhaps. But my mom made me spaghetti with chopped-up hot dogs whenever I wanted, so who cares?

Dr Hofstadter: Leonard, I always made you earn my affection, but today I realize that there’s more than one way to raise a child.
Sheldon: I taught her that.

Amy: Can you believe it’s been five years since our first date?
Sheldon: I know. Do you think I should start watching The Flash TV show?

Amy: That’s what you’re thinking about?
Sheldon: Well, one of the things.

Amy: Are any of them me?
Sheldon: Yes. I thought, I can’t decide if I should watch The Flash TV show. I know, I’ll ask Amy. Anyway.

Amy: What are you doing?
Sheldon: You’re right, you did kind of kill the mood.

Amy: I didn’t kill anything. You did, talking about your stupid TV show.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Starting to watch a television show that might run for years isn’t a decision to take lightly. I’m wrestling with a big commitment issue here.

Amy: Really? That’s the commitment issue you’re wrestling with? Sheldon, do you understand the irony of your fixation on a man with super speed, while after five years all I can get out of you is a distracted make-out session on a couch?
Sheldon: Irony’s not really my strong suit. But I have been getting better with sarcasm, if you want to give that a try.

Amy: Oh, sure, I’d love to.
Sheldon: Whenever you’re ready.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Oh, good. You’re here. I need your assistance.

Leonard: Can it wait until I put a Band-Aid on a goat bite?
Sheldon: What happened?

Penny: Oh, your buddy got mugged by some baby farm animals.
Sheldon: Been there.

Penny: Mmm. So what do you need help with?
Sheldon: Amy’s mad at me, and I’m not clear why.

Penny: Okay. Were you talking before she got upset?
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: That’s probably it. What’d you say to her?
Sheldon: Well, I just asked her if I should start watching the new Flash TV series.

Penny: And that made her angry?
Sheldon: Baffling, right? We were necking like a couple of hooligans under the school bleachers. I stopped so I could ask the question. Next thing I know, good-bye, kissy face. Hello, yelly face.

Penny: Well, Sheldon, when you’re kissing a girl, she expects the attention to be on her.
Sheldon: It was. I asked her if she thought I should watch The Flash.

Leonard: I’m gonna guess that your main concern is the time commitment of watching an entire season of a new show.
Sheldon: Oh, no, not just a season. If I’m in, I’m in for the whole run, even if the quality declines.

Leonard: I get it. Smallville almost wrecked you.
Sheldon: Yeah. Exactly. You know, I waited ten years to see a guy everyone knows can fly, fly.

Penny: Wait, what is wrong with you two? He was talking about television during their date night.
Sheldon: Oh, not just date night, our fifth anniversary.

Penny: Okay, see, that’s even dumber than you wondering if being bitten by a goat would give you the powers of a goat.
Sheldon: If that happens, don’t make me wait ten years to watch you eat a tin can.

Penny: Still haven’t heard from her?
Sheldon: No, and I’m confused. It’s been nearly 24 hours. Amy should have figured out she’s wrong by now.

Penny: Hey, I don’t think she’s wrong about you going too slow in the relationship.
Sheldon: Too slow?

Penny: Yeah, you’ve been going out for years. You haven’t even slept together.
Sheldon: That’s right. It’s called foreplay. And I could make the case that you two aren’t moving forward in your relationship.

Penny: Uh, hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: No. Sheldon, we’re getting married.
Sheldon: But you’ve been engaged for over a year now, and you don’t even have a wedding date.

Penny: Well, we will. We’re just not in a rush.
Sheldon: Okay.

Leonard: We’re gonna set a date.
Sheldon: Okay. If you say so.

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Okay.

Penny: You know, I can see why Amy’s mad at you.
Sheldon: Yeah, shut up, Sheldon.

Penny: Not in a rush, busy with work…
Sheldon: Things are good right now.

Leonard: It’s not just the date. We haven’t talked about anything. Big wedding, small wedding, indoor, outdoor?
Sheldon: Outdoor? Oh. I can RSVP no right now.

Penny: Fine. I want to release butterflies.
Sheldon: Seriously? Airborne worms?

Leonard: Great.
Sheldon: You still didn’t pick a date.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I’m sorry I’ve upset you. I shouldn’t have asked so many questions.

Leonard: Yeah, maybe it’s good you got us talking about this stuff.
Sheldon: Well, look at that, even when I’m causing problems, I make the world a better place. Hey, next, why don’t we tackle your penchant for whining and Penny’s love of the ol’ glug-glug?

Penny: Uh, Sheldon, I think we’re good for now.
Sheldon: Ah, well, very well. So does this mean you’ll finally pick a wedding date?

Penny: Here we go again. Why is everyone so concerned with us setting a date? We’re committed to each other. We’re happy. A ceremony isn’t gonna change anything.
Sheldon: So you’re never getting married? It’s his whining, isn’t it?

Leonard: Sheldon, I’m not a whiner.
Sheldon: It’s amusing that he doesn’t hear it.

Leonard: Yeah, but we’ll be old and gross together.
Sheldon: My aunt and uncle were married 63 years. Towards the end, it was like watching cheese melt.

Leonard: I’m in. Let’s do it.
Sheldon: After all these years. I’m really happy for the two of you.

Leonard: Thanks.
Sheldon: Now get out of my spot.

Amy (on skype): Hello.
Sheldon: Hello. Listen, I’ve been thinking a lot about relationships and how difficult they can be, and I think…

Amy: I’ve been thinking about them, too, Sheldon. Being your girlfriend is so challenging. Emotionally, physically. I’ve been incredibly patient for years.
Sheldon: Strongly disagree. Go on.

Amy: Okay, well, this isn’t easy to say, because I love you, but I need some time to take a step back and re-evaluate our situation.
Sheldon: Oh.

Amy: I hope you understand.
Sheldon: Okay.

Amy: Bye, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Well, Gollum, you’re an expert on rings. What do I do with this one?

Leonard: Aw. That’s exactly what you said the first time we slept together. (Phone) Oh, excuse me. Sheldon. Hey.
Sheldon: Leonard, have you gotten married yet?

Leonard: No. Why?
Sheldon: Good. Don’t do it.

Leonard: Why not?
Sheldon: Some important new information has come to light. Women are the worst. I thought it was paper cuts, but I was wrong. No piece of paper ever cut me this deep.

Leonard: What happened now?
Sheldon: Amy has ended our relationship.

Penny: She did?
Sheldon: Is Penny crying?

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: No, of course not. They thrive on our suffering.

Leonard: Buddy, I’m so sorry. Is there anything I can do?
Sheldon: Yes. If I ever talk about going out with a girl again, roll your eyes at me like I do to you when you say dumb things.

Leonard: Sheldon, uh, okay, just because you’re going through this with Amy doesn’t mean that all women are bad.
Sheldon: Whatever.

Penny: Amy, don’t be like that.
Sheldon: Why did I just hear Amy’s name?

Leonard: Penny’s on the phone with her.
Sheldon: Did she say anything about me? Never mind. I don’t care. Well, if you care, you can find out and tell me. Just don’t be shocked when you find out that I don’t care.

Penny: She’s upset. Look, it’s gonna be a great wedding. Look at you in your little suit.
Sheldon: Amy’s upset? Is it about me?

Leonard: No, I think it’s because we’re eloping.
Sheldon: Your marriage is causing her pain? Yeah, great, I take it back. Go ahead and do it. Yay for love.

Scene: Outside Amy’s apartment. 
Sheldon: Hello.

Amy: Oh. What are you doing here?
Sheldon: When last we spoke, you said you needed time.

Amy: Well, it’s only been 11 hours.
Sheldon: The Lord of the Rings trilogy was nearly 11 hours. I made you watch that, you said it was an eternity.

Amy: Sheldon, when I’m ready to talk, I’ll let you know.
Sheldon: Very well. You seem to be headed somewhere. May I walk with you?

Amy: Sure.
Sheldon: Boy, I’m glad we’re going out again.

Amy: We’re not back together.
Sheldon: Why? Is there someone else? Just couldn’t wait for that first notch on your bedpost, could you?

Amy: If you must know, I’m going to Howard and Bernadette’s to watch the wedding.
Sheldon: And who’s this guy you’re taking?

Amy: There’s no guy.
Sheldon: Oh, you’re going to a wedding alone? That’s sad.

Amy: I’m not gonna be alone. I’ll be with my friends.
Sheldon: Your friends? Well, I think you mean my friends. And why wasn’t I invited to this?

Amy: Maybe because the two of us being there would make them feel awkward.
Sheldon: We make everyone feel awkward. That’s our thing.

Bernadette: For God’s sake, Sheldon, what are you doing?
Sheldon: I didn’t want to come in. I was told it would make everyone feel uncomfortable. So I’ll just stay out here and pretend that I don’t have to go to the bathroom.

Amy: Sheldon, you being here might not be making things better.
Sheldon: I see. And is that why everybody was invited but me?

Scene: Howard and Bernadette’s House.
Sheldon: Raj, you’re probably wondering why Amy and I aren’t showing any affection to one another.

Raj: Didn’t even crack the top ten.
Sheldon: Well, you should know that she recently broke up with me.

Raj: I’m sure you guys will figure something out.
Sheldon: You hear that? Raj is devastated.

Bernadette: Sheldon, shh. The wedding’s starting.
Sheldon: I see what’s happening. Sides are forming. Well, if Bernadette’s on Amy’s team, I pick Howard.

Howard: I’m not taking sides.
Sheldon: Fine, I guess I’m stuck with Raj.

Bernadette: No, we totally won.
Sheldon: Amy, I don’t understand, are we broken up or not? It’s like you can’t make up your mind.

Amy: It’s because you’re not giving me any space to think.
Sheldon: Well, you should think fast, because men can sire offspring their entire lives, but those eggs you’re toting around have a sell-by date.

Bernadette: Amy.
Sheldon: Will someone take me home?

Mrs Cooper: Shelly! How’s my baby doing?
Sheldon: I just wanted to let you know that you can remove Amy from your nightly prayers. Unless you’re open to praying for a beehive to fall on her head.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, what’s going on?
Sheldon: She broke up with me.

Mrs Cooper: Oh, Shelly.
Sheldon: No, I’ll be okay. But I think that I’d like to send the ring back to you.

Mrs Cooper: Well, let’s not be hasty. Are you sure it’s over for good?
Sheldon: It’s over for me. I’m done with women. Like when I swore off Pop Rocks. They both hurt you on purpose.

Mrs Cooper: You want to tell me what happened?
Sheldon: Are you going to say it’s all part of God’s plan?

Mrs Cooper: Good chance.
Sheldon: Then no, thank you.

Mrs Cooper: Well, honey, don’t send it back yet. Your sister’s married, and I’m not letting your brother give my grandmother’s ring to that whore he’s dating.
Sheldon: Wasn’t Mary Magdalene a woman of ill repute?

Leonard: Okay, listen, I may not have been entirely faithful, but you, you are not easy to lift.
Sheldon: Wow. Well, marriage must agree with you. Well, you are just glowing.

Leonard: I’m not glowing. I’m upset.
Sheldon: Well, whatever it is, it agrees with you.

Penny: What’s this?
Sheldon: Leonard told me what happened, so I took it upon myself to make you a hot beverage.

Penny: Oh. That’s so sweet of you.
Sheldon: Yeah. I know. Turns out, being sweet isn’t enough to keep a girl these days. I blame Madonna.

Penny: I’m sorry to hear about you and Amy.
Sheldon: Well, I’m sorry about Leonard. Thought I raised him better than that.

Penny: You know, it’s bad enough what happened, but then he tried to hide the fact that he sees her all the time at the university.
Sheldon: He does? Who is it?

Penny: Some girl named Mandy.
Sheldon: Mandy Chao?

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Oh, you don’t need to worry about her. She’s brilliant and attractive. She can do way better

Penny: That’s great.
Sheldon: Wait a minute. I know this may sound far fetched, but I’m on the market now. You know, if I dated Mandy, that would teach both Leonard and Amy a lesson.

Penny: That’s ridiculous.
Sheldon: Oh, you’re right. I could never be with a woman whose self-esteem was so low she’d be with Leonard.

Penny: I’m with Leonard.
Sheldon: Yeah, I know. Forever. Who would have believed these things would happen to us?

Penny: Right? I can’t believe Amy actually went through with it.
Sheldon: Hang on. You knew that she was going to end it with me? Did you try and stop her?

Penny: I told her to be true to herself and do what makes her happy.
Sheldon: Do what makes her happy? She plays the harp and her car is paid for. How much happier can she be?

Penny: Okay, look, it’s not my fault that she thought you were a bad boyfriend.
Sheldon: I see. Well, I think I’ll be going.

Penny: Sheldon.
Sheldon: No, no, no, no. We are done here. Would you mind opening the door and then angrily slamming it behind me?

Penny: Sure.
Sheldon: Thank you. And slam it hard, because I am pretty steamed.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Would you like to hear another reason why men are better than women?

Leonard: Sure, let’s make it an even hundred.
Sheldon: You would never kiss me and make me say I love you and then break up with me.

Leonard: I wouldn’t.
Sheldon: And you know why? ‘Cause you’re a man. The champagne of genders.

Leonard: Well, I may be a man, but I think I’m the one that screwed up on this one.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, and you admit it, like a man. All you hear women say is, I’ll just have a salad. You know? Where’s my lip gloss? I think this element should be called radium. That last one was Madame Curie.

Leonard: I figured that out.
Sheldon: You know what? She was kind of an honorary man. She had a penis made of science.

Leonard: Can’t believe I’m spending my wedding night with you.
Sheldon: Really? I never imagined it any other way.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Why are you up?

Leonard: How am I supposed to sleep? I’ve been married less than 24 hours, and my wife isn’t speaking to me.
Sheldon: Perhaps you can think of this n a more positive light. In one day, you’ve managed to do what it takes many couples decades to achieve.

Leonard: Of course not.
Sheldon: Me neither. But I just had a tickle in my throat, not profound marital problems.

Leonard: Please, tell me how I can fix it.
Sheldon: Glad you asked. As I see it, there’s a simple solution. Your lips had a dalliance with the lips of another woman. It seems only logical that to restore balance to the relationship, you should find another man and dally with him. And by dally, I mean some hardcore mouth-on-mouth action.

Leonard: You can’t be serious. ‘Cause I messed up and made out with a girl, you’re gonna do the same with a random guy?
Sheldon: I’m currently single.

Leonard: What is happening?
Sheldon: I will tell you what is happening. I am saving my best friend’s marriage.

Amy (on skype): Sheldon, I don’t think you understand how being broken up works. The only way I can sort through my feelings is if there is space between us. Every time I see you, it re-traumatizes me. I go through the pain all over again.
Sheldon: Well, hello to you, too.

Amy: What do you want?
Sheldon: I understand we’re no longer a couple, but I would like to remind you that we made a baby together.

Amy: What baby?
Sheldon: A precocious little Internet show known as Fun With Flags.

Amy: I’m hanging up.
Sheldon: Great. See you in about half an hour.

Amy: Sheldon, I am not doing Fun With Flags with you.
Sheldon: Why not?

Amy: Because we’re broken up.
Sheldon: Sonny and Cher made it work. Their variety show kept going long after the divorce, and here we are still talking about them.

Amy: No one’s talking about Sonny and Cher.
Sheldon: You must be thinking about Donny and Marie, ’cause you and I are clearly talking about Sonny and Cher.

Amy: Sheldon, this has to stop. I know it’s hard. It’s hard for me, too. But I’ve seen and talked to you more in the two days we’ve been broken up than in the last two months that we were together.
Sheldon: Well, if you want to see less of me, maybe we should go out again.

Amy: What are you doing here?
Sheldon: I’m here to return your belongings. That’s what people who’ve broken up do.

Amy: And you didn’t do your compulsive knocking ritual so I would open the door.
Sheldon: On the contrary, you no longer get to enjoy my charming eccentricities. We’re not friends with benefits.

Amy: Just give me the box.
Sheldon: Wait. Don’t you want to go through it to make sure I haven’t forgotten anything?

Amy: Fine. My old scarf.
Sheldon: You wore it the night we went ice-skating. Remember?

Amy: You mean the night that I went ice-skating, and you stood at the rail googling the symptoms of hypothermia?
Sheldon: We made one heck of a team, huh?

Amy: Whose bra is this?
Sheldon: It’s not yours? Oh, my. How embarrassing for both of us.

Amy: It’s Penny’s.
Sheldon: Hey, you broke up with me. It is none of your business whose naked bosom I’m smooshing around like pizza dough.

Amy: Good-bye.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. Hmm. Tables work, too. Good to know.

Leonard: Hey, uh, buddy, can we have some privacy?
Sheldon: Oh, of course. Wouldn’t want to intrude. This is yours.

Penny: Okay, when I’m done with him, I’m gonna need more information.
Sheldon: Nothing odd. I just wanted to rub Amy’s nose in it.

Penny: Okay, look, I might be overreacting, but how am I supposed to get past this when I know tomorrow you’re gonna go to work and see this woman?
Sheldon: Now, forgive me for eavesdropping, but as I see it, there’s a simple solution.

Leonard: Wake up, wake up, wake up.
Sheldon: Bring Penny to meet Mandy.

Leonard: What? Why?
Sheldon: Well, right now, Penny’s imagination is running wild, but if they meet, that will eliminate the mystery and alleviate her fears. Like when that Sparkletts guy let me look under his eye patch.

Leonard: Uh, first of all, you made that guy cry.
Sheldon: And we learned that you don’t need an eyeball to do that.

Leonard: I’m not being weird. Am I being weird?
Sheldon: Yes. And that’s coming from me.

Penny: Yeah, well, maybe she has interest in you.
Sheldon: In Leonard? Oh, even the Sparkletts guy could see that’s unlikely.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello. I’m Dr. Sheldon Cooper, and welcome to Sheldon Cooper Presents: Fun With Flags. You may notice that I’m holding a remote control. That’s because my cameraperson and co-host, Dr. Amy Farrah Fowler, has chosen to end her relationship with me. I’m going to pause here to let that sink in. Okay. If you need to pause a little longer, just click the pause button. But the show must go on. And thankfully, all the things my girlfriend used to do can be taken care of with my right hand. Anyway, let’s not spend any more time talking about her. We’re here to talk about flags. Tonight’s theme, flags of countries that have been torn apart and the women I have a feeling were responsible.

Amy: I’m gonna kill him.
Sheldon: But enough about the Czech Republic. Let’s talk about the time Moldova made Romania a birthday cake and Romania said it tasted good even though it didn’t. And yet Romania gets dumped. I’ll pause here while you mull that one over. I know, right?

Penny: Sheldon, I can’t believe you got us a wedding gift.
Sheldon: I don’t know why you’re so surprised. I watch movies, I see what people do.

Leonard: What is this?
Sheldon: Plane tickets and hotel reservations for a weekend away in San Francisco.

Penny: That’s so great.
Sheldon: Yeah, there’s Fisherman’s Wharf and Alcatraz and cable cars. We’re gonna have so much fun.

Penny: We?
Sheldon: Is there a problem?

Amy (at door): How dare you go on the Internet and say mean things about me and compare my genitalia to part of Czechoslovakia?
Sheldon: You saw through that one, did you?

Amy: I don’t know what you were thinking, but take the video down now.
Sheldon: She watched it. I’m gonna get that girl back.

Amy: I only watched it because you e-mailed it to me with the subject line this is gonna make you mad.
Sheldon: She was listening through the door. She wants me.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Would you pass the mustard?

Leonard: Sure. Hey, want to hear a fun fact about mustard?
Sheldon: Is it that the glucosinolates which give mustard its flavour were evolved by the cabbage family as a chemical defence against caterpillars?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Well, that was fun. Good for you, Leonard.

Raj: Well, you eloped and we didn’t get a chance to throw you a bachelor party, so there’s a van downstairs and we’re here to take you to a surprise location for the weekend.
Sheldon: Well, I’d hardly call this kidnapping. Where’s the blindfold? Where’s the duct tape? Where’s the part where you call me and demand ransom and I try to keep you on the phone, but you hang up seconds before I can trace it and then I say I’m getting too old for this crud?

Howard: Wow, okay.
Sheldon: You’re seriously going to get in a van and let these two take you to an unknown destination for an entire weekend?

Raj: Oh, not just him, you’re coming, too.
Sheldon: Oh, and how do you think you’re going to get me to do that?

Scene: Outside, by a van.
Sheldon: Unhand me. This is ridiculous.

Scene: The van.
Sheldon: It’s bad enough I’m being taken against my will. I don’t see why it has to be in some hippie’s mobile sex dungeon.

Howard: Well, Sheldon, there’s something about this van that you’re going to find very interesting.
Sheldon: It runs on syphilis?

Raj: This van was owned and driven by your personal physics hero, Richard Feynman.
Sheldon: No.

Howard: I bet he picked up a lot of cute grad students in this bad boy.
Sheldon: Yeah, and talked about physics with them.

Leonard: Fun, I’ve never been there.
Sheldon: Leonard, don’t be fooled. I’m from Texas, Me-hi-co is Spanish for Mexico.

Raj: What’s wrong with Mexico?
Sheldon: Uh, mariachi bands, wild dogs, beans that jump around ’cause there’s a worm inside.

Howard: Okay, calm down. There’s a theme to this weekend. We are going to Mexico in Feynman’s van to stay at the vacation house Feynman bought with the money from his Nobel Prize.
Sheldon: Viva la Imodium. Ay-ay-ay.

Scene: The van.
Sheldon: Uh-oh. According to this Mexican customs website, visitors may not bring more than five laser discs, 20 compact discs or 12 VHS tapes.

Raj: We don’t have any of those.
Sheldon: How can you be sure? VHS was king when Feynman drove this van. For all we know, there are hidden compartments lousy with Jane Fonda workout videos.

Leonard: If there was a hidden compartment, don’t you think you’d be stuffed in it by now?
Sheldon: Are we all up to date on our yellow fever inoculations?

Howard: You don’t need a yellow fever shot to go to Mexico.
Sheldon: You can never be too careful. I got one last year before I went to Epcot.

Leonard: Sheldon, can you believe that we’re driving in a van that was owned by one of the greatest scientific minds of the 20th century? It’s like the Batmobile. If Batman was real and a physicist and his car wasn’t cool.
Sheldon: It is extraordinary.

Raj: Perhaps some of his mojo will rub off on us. Maybe between this and his beach house, we will be inspired to greatness.
Sheldon: I usually don’t put too much stock in charms and talismans. However, even I must admit feeling Richard Feynman’s butt dent cupping my own bottom that does get the creative juices flowing.

Howard: Hey, I have to return this van. Keep your creative juices in your pants.
Sheldon: What was that?

Howard: I think it’s a tyre.
Sheldon: What if it’s banditos shooting at us? What if we get kidnapped? What if we end up in a factory making Bart Simpson piñatas for the rest of our lives?

Howard: It’s the tyre.
Sheldon: Leonard?

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I am getting too old for this crud.

Howard: Every self-respecting gentleman should know how in case he comes across a damsel in distress by the side of the road.
Sheldon: If I see one scorpion, I am getting on someone’s shoulders and never coming down.

Leonard: Yeah, this is nothing more than a physics problem.
Sheldon: Right. Archimedes once said give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I shall move the world.

Leonard: Let’s see, a lever, a lever.
Sheldon: Everybody hold on. Let’s take this problem one step at a time. First, we need to decide whether we’re calling it leever or lehver. And the sooner we decide it’s leever, the sooner we can roll up our sleeves, not slehves, and get to work.

Howard: No, it’s too broad of a beam. You’d need something more precise, like Superman’s heat vision.
Sheldon: Ooh, the Green Lantern’s ring could make a big green hand that unscrews it.

Raj: If you need a green hand, why not just use the Hulk?
Sheldon: Oh, please, the Hulk would never get across the border with that temper.

Leonard: Guys, excuse me, not that calling one of the Avengers isn’t a perfectly reasonable choice, but we’re scientists. Don’t you think we can figure this out using actual science?
Sheldon: Yes, we could use science. But it’s your bachelor party. Lighten up.

Leonard: They’re basically pure hydrocarbons soaked in fat. Let’s hope the lug nut expands.
Sheldon: What if that burning food attracts animals?

Howard: We have plenty of food for the animals.
Sheldon: We do?

Howard: Yep. A six-foot wiener in a Flash T-shirt.
Sheldon: That’s not very nice.

Caption: Scientific Principle: Accelerated Corrosion.
Sheldon: What is that awful smell?

Howard: It’s burning salsa. I’m hoping the acidity and salinity combined with electricity will corrode the lug nut off.
Sheldon: What an innovative solution. Perhaps I don’t give your MIT education enough credit.

Caption: Scientific Principle: Exothermic Reaction.
Sheldon: All right, this rust, combined with the aluminium recovered from the van, is now thermite.

Penny: If it makes you feel any better, I pierced Amy’s ears and her mom made her sit in my closet.
Sheldon: We blew up Feynman’s van.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: What a wonderful day, thank you.

Penny: Oh, we’re glad you had fun.
Sheldon: Blue Icees and a trip to The Container Store? It’s like I died and went to the post-mortem, neuron-induced hallucination commonly mistaken as heaven.

Leonard: I still don’t understand why you bought that pill caddie. You’re a young man.
Sheldon: Age is a state of mind, Leonard. In here I’m 90. Why are you taking your bins over there?

Leonard: It’s just where I need them. You know, she doesn’t have a lot of closet space.
Sheldon: What’s wrong with your closet?

Penny: Uh, well, honey, you know, now that Leonard and I are married, it kind of makes sense that we actually live together.
Sheldon: So that’s all this day was? A plan to butter me up before delivering bad news?

Leonard: Come on, buddy.
Sheldon: No, I thought we were friends. You asked for a sip of my Icee. If you had your own straw, I might’ve said yes.

Penny: Sheldon, please, we already feel bad about this.
Sheldon: You know what they don’t sell at The Container Store? Something large enough to contain my disappointment. Although, if anyone did, it would be them.

Scene: Howard and Bernadette’s house.
Sheldon: Thank you for letting me come speak with you.

Bernadette: Of course.
Sheldon: As my relationships with Penny and Amy are currently strained, I’m turning to you for female comfort and encouragement.

Bernadette: Aw. I’m honoured.
Sheldon: I tried reaching out to my mother, but she was in Bible study. Leonard’s mother is on a book tour. My Mee-Maw was taking a nap, and after a while Siri started repeating her answers.

Bernadette: So, I’m your seventh choice.
Sheldon: Yeah, I know, top ten, pretty exciting.

Bernadette: How can I help you?
Sheldon: Well, in addition to Amy leaving me, Leonard’s moving in with Penny. It’s difficult not to feel abandoned.

Bernadette: Well, why don’t you look at this as an opportunity? You had other roommates before Leonard. Maybe this is a chance to find someone new.
Sheldon: Perhaps I could find someone better than Leonard. Someone I can rub in his face. Chris Pratt’s all the rage right now. I wonder how he’d feel about taking the smaller bedroom.

Bernadette: Hey. You know who would be the perfect roomie?
Sheldon: Gandalf, but he’s a smoker.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Just a few more signatures, and we’ll be finished. Initial here to acknowledge that you’ve returned your key. Okay. As my future neighbour, I’d like you to have a key. Initial here to acknowledge you received it.

Penny: I’m proud of you. You’re taking this really well.
Sheldon: Well, it’s not like I’m never going to see you two again. Which brings us to article 23 subsection C, please check here to reserve your spot at the ten year roommate reunion.

Leonard: Do I really have to do that now?
Sheldon: No, but if you want chicken and get stuck with the fish, that’s on you. All right. Oh, and lastly, please initial here to confirm that ownership of the living room couch is hereby transferred to me in perpetuity all throughout the universe and all alternate universes except for those universes where owning a couch is forbidden by the hive queen. In which case, all glory to the hive queen. All right, now all that’s left is for us to sign and date the document, and we will officially no longer be roommates.

Leonard: It’s harder than I thought.
Sheldon: Let me help you. L. E. O. N.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I appreciate your interest in the apartment. I just need to ask you a few standard questions.

Bespectacled Man: Sure.
Sheldon: It says here you’re a chemist. Which element on the periodic table do you feel is too big for its britches?

Bespectacled Man: Is that supposed to be a joke?
Sheldon: Looks like argon’s not the only one with an attitude problem.

Fade to another candidate.
Sheldon: In general, would you say that you smell better, worse or the same as you do right now?

Fade to another candidate.
Sheldon: I was going to ask you what is the best fruit, but then I realized what I want to ask you is why is there a Band-Aid on your forearm, but then I realized what I really want to ask you is just can you just go?

Fade to another candidate.
Sheldon: You’re healthy. You have a job in the sciences. I’ve got to say, if this credit report comes back good, you’re the frontrunner.

Amy (on Skype): I’m not gonna be your roommate, Sheldon.
Sheldon: But I met with 11 people, and they all walked out. And that Hollywood phoney Chris Pratt never tweeted me back.

Amy: I’m sure you’ll find somebody else.
Sheldon: I suppose. What happened to me, Amy? Years ago I was completely disengaged from my feelings. I’d say it was a happier time, but I was disengaged from my feelings, so who can tell?

Amy: I don’t know how to help you. You know, feelings are a part of life.
Sheldon: They didn’t used to be. You and Leonard and Penny, you all poisoned me with emotions. I was like the Tin Man, perfectly content until that evil wizard gave him a heart.

Amy: I don’t think that was the point of the movie.
Sheldon: Fine, then I was like Pinocchio before that jerk Geppetto went and made him a real boy.

Penny: Hey, we’re going to dinner. You want to come?
Sheldon: Oh, I wish I could, but I realized I’ve become too emotionally vulnerable, so, like an operating system, I’m restoring my life to the last stable version, which was in 2003, the day before I met Leonard.

Penny: Hang on. Wait, you actually think it’s 2003?
Sheldon: No, just because I’m living my life like it was 12 years ago doesn’t mean I’m delusional. And since it is 2003, I don’t know who you are, so please exit the premises before I call the police on my stylish new flip phone.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Hello, 2003.

Leonard: Hey, we brought you Thai. Where is everything?
Sheldon: In my present, it’s in the future. In your present, it’s been crammed in the bedroom by an enterprising young man I met in The Home Depot parking lot.

Leonard: I know what you’re doing. You’re trying to get attention so we’ll feel bad for you, but it’s not happening.
Sheldon: No, what I’m doing is trying to figure out how to live my life now that everyone is leaving me.

Leonard: Will you knock it off? We’re across the hall.
Sheldon: As the kids are saying today, talk to the hand.

Penny: They’re not saying that.
Sheldon: They are in 2003.

Leonard: Buddy, I know me moving in with Penny feels like a big change, but it’s not.
Sheldon: How can you say that? Amy’s gone, and you two are married now, so it’s only a matter of time before you’re gone, too.

Penny: Okay, you don’t know what’s gonna happen.
Sheldon: No, I do. Eventually you’ll want more space, and you’ll move into a house, and then instead of dinner a couple of times a week, it’ll only be a couple of times a month, and then it’ll only be on special occasions, like when Bernadette divorces Wolowitz. Or, or, or like when Koothrappali’s weird girlfriend admits where she buried his body. Or Amy’s wedding, where she’s marrying someone better than me.

Penny: Okay, look, we don’t need to rush into anything. All right? Maybe instead of Leonard moving in with me, we just leave things the way they are, and sometimes we’ll sleep over there, and sometimes we’ll sleep over here.
Sheldon: But mostly here.

Penny: Well, it’s not forever. It’s just for a while. If you want, we can think of him like he’s our dog.
Sheldon: You can. I’m happy when you come home. And I’m scared of fireworks. By the way, on July Fourth, we’re all sleeping here.

Leonard: Fine.
Sheldon: All right, great. Just give me one minute, and I’ll get started on a new roommate agreement. Yeah. nothing from Pratt, we’re good.

Howard: Oh, one sec.
Sheldon: Is that the prototype drive system for the high-G rover?

Howard: The other day, when she tried to put that Fitbit on me and I ran away from her.
Sheldon: According to a recent study, simply thinking about exercise, even while sitting still, can have physical benefits. For all you know, I could be exercising right now.

Raj: Are you?
Sheldon: Nah, I’ll do it tomorrow.

Leonard: Look at all these activities the university has. Rock climbing club, archery, flag football.
Sheldon: Had me at flag, lost me at football.

Leonard: I got a triple-word score with a double letter Q. If that’s not a time to bust out the scrabble dance, what’s the point of having one? Hey, Barry Kripke started a fencing club.
Sheldon: Interesting. Sword fighting does hold a certain elegant appeal. And I would imagine it meets many of our personal criteria for a sport.

Leonard: It’s indoors, so no sunscreen.
Sheldon: No throwing, no catching, no running.

Leonard: No gym shorts that can be yanked down.
Sheldon: Or worse, up.

Leonard: Preach.
Sheldon: And as an added bonus, the word touché comes from fencing. It would be our only opportunity to use it in a non-metaphorical sense.

Leonard: What about a game of tag on a French schoolyard?
Sheldon: Ah, touché.

Leonard: I always wanted to be a swashbuckler when I was a kid.
Sheldon: Technically, swashbuckler is a combination of two terms. Swash referring to the sound of the sword. Swash. And then buckler meaning a small shield, which you don’t have.

Barry: Well, sowwy to disappoint you, but fencing is a sewious spowt. If you’re not wiwwing to put in the effowt, you might as well just weave now.
Sheldon: We’re not afraid of physical activity.

Barry: Awwight. Let’s begin with some fundamentals. This is the en garde position. Feet are in an L. Heels in a stwaight wine. Elbow is about a fist from the wib cage. Notice my dominant weg faces fowward.
Sheldon: Oh, dear.

Barry: What’s wong, Cooper?
Sheldon: Well, I’m not sure I have a dominant leg. They’re both pretty submissive.

Howard: When you’re in a public restroom, which foot do you flush the toilet with?
Sheldon: Right. Always right.

Barry: Good. The next move is called a wetweat. Step back. Back foot first, toe to heel. Fwont foot fowwows. On thwee.
Sheldon: Excuse me, Barry?

Barry: Yes.
Sheldon: When can I stab one of my friends?

Barry: In fencing, we don’t call it a stab. We call it a touch.
Sheldon: Uh, yes, I’m aware. But if I say I want to touch one of my friends, I’ll get called into Human Resources.

Raj: Look at us. We’re like the Rockettes.
Sheldon: En garde, Leonard. Prepare yourself for a rigorous touching.

Raj: Oh, yeah, right. Sorry. My name is Puss in Boots. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
Sheldon: I’m looking forward to him teaching us glove-slapping.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: You know, when my honour is insulted, and I need to challenge someone to a duel by slapping them across the face with my glove.

Leonard: When was your honour insulted?
Sheldon: My last physical.

Howard: My name is Darth Vader. I am your father. Prepare to die.
Sheldon: Ah, this is fun.

Barry: What’s going on with Amy?
Sheldon: Not that it’s any of your business, but she broke up with me.

Barry: Weawwy? Good to know.
Sheldon: Good to know? What’s that supposed to mean?

Leonard: Oh. I hate to say it, but it sounds like he’s interested in her.
Sheldon: Well, that’s unacceptable.

Leonard: Oh, buddy, I get that you don’t like it, but it’s not really up to you.
Sheldon: Yeah, but he’s dumb, and his face is dumb.

Leonard: Look, even if it’s not him, Amy’s probably going to date someone at some point.
Sheldon: You really think so?

Leonard: Of course. She deserves to be happy.
Sheldon: How dare you.

Leonard: Listen, I should warn you that maybe asking Amy out isn’t a good idea.
Sheldon: Barry, a word?

Leonard: And now the crazy version of what I just said.
Sheldon: If you intend to pursue Amy, you leave me with no choice but to put a stop to it.

Barry: And how are you gonna do that?
Sheldon: By challenging you to a duel.

Barry: You’ve had one wesson. I’ll destwoy you.
Sheldon: That is why the duel will take place at high noon, three years from today. If you’re worth your salt as an instructor, I should be ready by then. Yeah, and be warned. I’m going to touch you all over.

Leonard: I’m surprised you wanted to go to a sports bar, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Look at this blister. Like it or not, we’re athletes now. Besides, a bar is where I belong. I’m having female problems.

Howard: Sheldon, instead of focusing on Amy dating other guys, maybe you should start thinking about dating another girl.
Sheldon: That’s ridiculous.

Raj: Why? You never thought you’d end up in a relationship, and then you met Amy. Maybe there’s someone else out there for you.
Sheldon: True, but Penny’s married, and so is Bernadette. And your girlfriend has red hair and white skin, which really rubs up against my clown phobia.

Leonard: Maybe you should consider women who aren’t in serious relationships with your closest friends?
Sheldon: There’s that prostate doctor, but I’m still mad at her. Oh, there’s a woman. I’ll make her my girlfriend.

Raj: Whoa, whoa. Walking up to a strange woman in a bar usually doesn’t work.
Sheldon: You’re forgetting something. Ladies love jocks.

Howard: Oh, boy.
Sheldon: Excuse me. I’m recovering from a recent breakup, and I’m told asking out another woman might make me feel better. And as Ash Ketchum said to Pikachu, I choose you.

Woman: What?
Sheldon: It’s a Pokémon reference.

Woman: I don’t know what that means.
Sheldon: Well, we gave it a shot. How about you?

Older woman: I’m married, and I’m her grandmother.
Sheldon: Ah, what might have been. And you, give my regards to Barnum and Bailey.

Scene: The stairwell.
Sheldon: I smell funny. I taste salty.

Leonard: You’re just sweaty from exercise.
Sheldon: And kind of delicious. I wonder how many licks it would take to get to the centre of me.

Amy: Hello.
Sheldon: Hello.

Bernadette: Yeah.
Sheldon: You don’t have to leave.

Amy: How have you been?
Sheldon: I’m doing all right. I tried fencing today.

Amy: How’d that go?
Sheldon: It was pretty easy. And I think my background in mathletics helped. Barry Kripke was there. I should let you know that he expressed interest in asking you out.

Amy: Well, actually, he, he already did.
Sheldon: Okay. But don’t get too attached to him. in two years, 364 days, he’s a dead man.

Amy: I said no.
Sheldon: Interesting. I asked two women out today, and they both said no.

Amy: I didn’t know you were interested in dating.
Sheldon: I’ve been told it’s a good way to move on.

Amy: Oh. Okay. Anyway, um, it’s nice to see you. You look good.
Sheldon: Thanks. And I taste good too.

Scene: Leonard’s lab.
Sheldon: Leonard, I’ve got terrible news.

Leonard: What’s going on?
Sheldon: Before I tell you, perhaps I should soften the blow. You’re face is pleasingly symmetrical.

Leonard: Just tell me.
Sheldon: A Swedish team of physicists is trying to scoop our super-fluid vortex experiment.

Leonard: Oh, well, that kind of stinks.
Sheldon: That kind of stinks? Why aren’t you more upset? Did I soften the blow too much? Because this here is more like a Picasso painting.

Leonard: What are we going to do?
Sheldon: Perform the experiment immediately.

Leonard: I’d love to, but we need liquid helium and our shipment’s on back order for a month.
Sheldon: A month? What? Are you kidding me? That would have been a good time for you to soften the blow.

Leonard: That shirt brings out the blue in your eyes.
Sheldon: Thank you. Aren’t you sweet.

Leonard: Let’s go check to see if the university has any helium in reserve.
Sheldon: Did you know that I almost didn’t wear this shirt today?

Barry: Sowwy, there’s a showtage. And what we do have I need for my quantum excitation study.
Sheldon: But you won’t need much for that.

Leonard: Yes.
Sheldon: Not a chance.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: He said be honest, so I was honest. Didn’t your mother tell you? It’s the best policy. So, what do you say?

Barry: Hell no.
Sheldon: He could’ve softened the blow.

Raj: Hey, people were still talking about that party on siete de Mayo.
Sheldon: Leonard, if that Swedish team beats us, I will never be able to enjoy anything from their country again. Which is a shame, because Swedish meatballs are my favourite toothpick-delivered meatball.

Leonard: Who is he?
Sheldon: Where does he work?

Leonard: How does he get the helium?
Sheldon: How many questions are too many questions?

Howard: Maybe he’s not for you.
Sheldon: Four questions. There answer’s four.

Leonard: Oh, hey. I just heard back from the liquid helium guy.
Sheldon: What’s he say?

Leonard: He’s got what we need and can meet us tonight.
Sheldon: Really? You know I don’t like buying things at night. January 7th, 2009, I went to the Ralph’s at 11:30pm to pick up Cracklin’ Oat Bran for the morning and what did I see?

Leonard: The man restocking the cereal shelves.
Sheldon: That’s right. And what did he do?

Leonard: He handed you the box directly and called you Stretch.
Sheldon: It’s like it was yesterday.

Leonard: Do you want liquid helium or not?
Sheldon: Of course I do. I don’t want that Swedish team scooping us.

Leonard: Then I’m going to tell him we’re in.
Sheldon: Leonard, wait. This is highly unethical.

Leonard: We’re just bending the rules a little. We have grant money to do the experiment, so we’re going to spend it on the helium we need. It’s not like when Dr. Goldfarb claimed he bought an electron microscope and he was really just keeping a Russian girl in an apartment in Van Nuys.
Sheldon: Was she helping him with his research?

Leonard: Sure. So, are we doing this?
Sheldon: Well, but where does he get the helium?

Leonard: Remember? Don’t ask too many questions?
Sheldon: Uh, but this is violating university code.

Leonard: A little, but if I may quote Einstein, the pursuit of science calls us to ignore the rules set by man.
Sheldon: Huh. All right, do it. Tell him we’re in.

Leonard: Done.
Sheldon: I can’t find that quote on the Internet. Did you make that up?

Leonard: Before I answer, may I just say your skin has never looked better.
Sheldon: Aren’t you just made of sugar.

Leonard: That must be him.
Sheldon: Oh, of course. An nondescript, white panel van. You may be familiar with it from the sentence, their bodies were found in a nondescript, white panel van.

Leonard: Uh, I’m Leonard. This is my friend…
Sheldon: I’m Skippy. Skippy Cavanaugh.

Leonard: Uh, yeah, uh, right here.
Sheldon: Wait, hold on, hold on. How do we know that you’re not gonna take the money and drive away?

Leonard: What ya doing, Skippy?
Sheldon: Exactly what 1970s television crime dramas have taught us. You give us the helium first.

Man: Oh, how do I know you’re not gonna drive away without paying me?
Sheldon: Guess I’m not the only one who watches ’70s television crime dramas.

Leonard: Look, you can trust us. We’re respected scientists.
Sheldon: Well, he is. I’m a wedding planner who can’t find love himself. It’s ironic, but the point is we can’t trust you. You’re a sketchy character in a parking garage.

Man: Yeah, well, from my perspective, that’s how you two appear to me.
Sheldon: Well, I never thought of it like that. Boy, frame of reference will just sneak up on you, won’t it?

Man: Ah, no money, no helium. Seems we’re at a, uh, stalemate.
Sheldon: Not technically. In chess, a stalemate refers to a situation in which there are no remaining moves. Uh, you have plenty of moves available. You could beat us up and steal the money. You could kill us, you know. Really, you’re only limited by your imagination.

Man: Oh, whoa, whoa, how can it bea Mexican standoff? Everybody knows you need three sides for that.
Sheldon: Not necessarily. Uh, many argue the essence of a Mexican standoff is that no one can walk away from the conflict without incurring harm.

Man: Hmm, I don’t follow.
Sheldon: Let me give you an example. Earlier today, I decoded the headers on your e-mail, and I know that your name is Kenneth Fitzgerald. From that, I figured out where you live and where you work. Now, to make this a Mexican standoff, I would say something like, uh, you give us the helium or I’ll turn you in to the authorities.

Man: Is that a threat?
Sheldon: Yeah, exactly. See, you’re getting it.

Man: Yeah, well, I know where you work, all right? And if you mess with me, I’ll report you, then I’ll pound your asses into the ground.
Sheldon: Perfect. Now we really are in a Mexican standoff. Is this one of those times where I’ve won the battle but lost the war?

Leonard: Afraid so, Skippy.
Sheldon: I told you we shouldn’t go shopping at night.

Man: Really? What’s the hypothesis?
Sheldon: Space-time can be interpreted as the surface of an n-dimensional superfluid.

Leonard: Okay, but now there’s this Swedish team that read our paper and they’re trying to beat us to our own discovery. We really need this helium.
Sheldon: And I’m sorry I lied about being a wedding planner who can’t find love. Although I am currently single, if you know anybody.

Man: Well, for the right amount of money, if you know where they live, there’s, uh, plenty we could do about it.
Sheldon: Did you hear that, Leonard? There’s plenty we could do about it. Do you have a card?

Scene: Leonard’s lab.
Sheldon: Right this way, Uncle Harvey.

Leonard: Will you stop with that already?
Sheldon: I’m trying not to attract attention.

Leonard: And tipping his hat to the cleaning lady didn’t do that?
Sheldon: She said buenas noches. What was he supposed to do?

Leonard: Let’s just start the experiment.
Sheldon: Leonard, we should probably have our story straight in case we get caught.

Leonard: We’re not getting caught.
Sheldon: Well, you can’t be sure of that. What if the helium dealer rats us out? What if Kripke asks where we got it? What if the university checks my family tree and finds out I don’t have an Uncle Harvey?

Leonard: The dealer doesn’t care, Kripke has no authority over us, and you being related to a metal container would explain a lot. Help me hook this up.
Sheldon: Uh-oh.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: Well, did you see this sticker?

Leonard: What is it?
Sheldon: It’s partially torn off, but the segment that remains reads property of and the letter U.

Leonard: It’s probably USC or UCLA.
Sheldon: Yeah, but what if it’s Property of U.S. Government? There’s a national helium reserve in Amarillo, Texas. If this was stolen from there, we’re accessories to a federal crime.

Leonard: Let’s not jump to conclusions. A lot of things start with U.
Sheldon: That’s true. There’s the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Department of Defence, U.S. Navy, you and I are going to jail.

Man: Yeah, well, normally I wouldn’t, but my daughter’s having a sleepover, and there’s only so much screaming and Katy Perry a man can take.
Sheldon: Anyway, if you could just give us our money back, you can have your helium and we’ll be on our way.

Leonard: No, nothing. We just changed our mind.
Sheldon: He has glasses and I’m a know-it-all, we are not built for prison.

Man: But you ain’t getting your money back.
Sheldon: You’re taking advantage of us? We clarified nomenclature together.

Man: No problem, but I am gonna have to charge you a small helium restocking fee.
Sheldon: I don’t understand.

Leonard: He wants more money.
Sheldon: Well, it better not be more than a thousand dollars. That’s all I’ve got on me.

Man: That’s exactly how much it is.
Sheldon: Finally, something breaks our way.

Scene: Leonard’s lab. 
Sheldon: Well, the Swedes might beat us, but at least we won’t get gang-noogied in prison.

Leonard: Is Ernest Goes to Jail the only prison movie you’ve seen?
Sheldon: It scared me straight, Leonard.

Barry: But you have to add my name to your paper.
Sheldon: That’s preposterous.

Barry: Take your time. I’ll walk out backwards for dwamatic effect.
Sheldon: I don’t like being extorted like this. Especially by him of all people.

Leonard: It says right here on Wikipedia. A Mexican standoff is a confrontation between at least three parties.
Sheldon: How can you trust Wikipedia if they use between to refer to three parties?

Helium Man: They should’ve used among, right?
Sheldon: Or amongst, if they were feeling whimsically archaic.

Helium Man: All right, enough with the chitchat. Are we gonna watch Ernest Goes to Jail or not?
Sheldon: Absolutely. But don’t be surprised if this movie sets you on the straight and narrow.

Leonard: You tell me, you woke up in bed with one.
Sheldon: Listen to this. I just received an e-mail from Wil Wheaton. Leonard Nimoy’s son is working on a documentary that he started with his father before he passed away. It’s about Mr. Spock and his impact on our culture.

Leonard: Why is he writing to you?
Sheldon: Well, they’re looking for fans to interview, and Wil thought I’d be good for it.

Raj: Oh. Hey, high five.
Sheldon: Absolutely not. Yeah, Penny, you spent some time in front of the camera. Any words of advice?

Penny: Yes. Don’t take your shirt off just because the director said so.
Sheldon: This is a documentary about Mr. Spock. I’m sure if there’s nudity, it will be tasteful.

Adam: Nice to meet you.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s nice to meet you. I admire your father’s work very much. It’s not every day I get to meet someone whose life’s journey began in my hero’s scrotum.

Adam: All right, we’re just gonna have a conversation. Pretend the camera’s not here.
Sheldon: All right. But this better not be some elaborate scheme to get me out of my shirt.

Adam: Let’s start with your name and occupation.
Sheldon: Dr. Sheldon Cooper, theoretical physicist, Caltech.

Adam: And what is your earliest memory of the character Spock?
Sheldon: The first episode of Star Trek: The Original Series I ever saw was The Galileo Seven. Uh, Spock had just landed on the planet Taurus II. Then my brother came in, sat on my head, and said eat farts. After that day, I was hooked. On Star Trek, not my brother’s sphincter-based cuisine.

Adam: What was it about Spock that appealed to you?
Sheldon: I think the same thing that appeals to people everywhere, the dream of a cold, rational world entirely without human emotion. Spock came from a planet governed only by logic. You know, on Vulcan, when your brother asks, why are you hitting yourself? the answer is, I’m not. You’re moving my arm. To which he says, Fascinating. And then you both watch educational television.

Adam: Do you have any Spock collectibles?
Sheldon: I have many. My most treasured is an autographed napkin given to me by my very thoughtful friend Penny. That’s her over there.

Adam: Can we see the napkin?
Sheldon: Of course. Excuse me. This will just take a moment.

Leonard: When did we get a wall safe?
Sheldon: When there was no more room in the floor safe.

Leonard: When did we get a floor safe?
Sheldon: When we got the security camera.

Leonard: There’s a security camera?
Sheldon: Aquaman, protecting your home since 2012.

Penny: Oh, my God. We’ve done things on that couch.
Sheldon: Yeah. You don’t have to tell me.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Not only is it signed to me but this is where he wiped his mouth. So we are currently in the presence of Leonard Nimoy’s DNA.

Wil: Um, doesn’t Adam count as Leonard Nimoy’s DNA?
Sheldon: No offence, but this is pure 100% Nimoy. Because of your mother, you’re only 50%. Which isn’t bad, but anything that you wipe your mouth on gets thrown away.

Penny: Okay, enough about the napkin. What else you hiding in there?
Sheldon: Wouldn’t you like to know?

Penny: I would.
Sheldon: All right then. See? Just my valuables. My passport, uh, my will.

Leonard: You have a will?
Sheldon: Yeah. My 1/18 scale Wil Wheaton action figure. I also have the other kind of will, and in it I will my Wil back to Wil.

Penny: Oh, what’s that ring box?
Sheldon: Oh. That is an engagement ring that I was going to give my girlfriend Amy.

Leonard: You bought her a ring?
Sheldon: No, no. This has been in my family for generations. Except for a short time when Comanches cut off my great-great-great-grandmother’s finger and stole it.

Wil: Sheldon, that’s awful.
Sheldon: No. The Texas Rangers tracked them down to their village and slaughtered every last one of them. It was a happy ending. Well, for my nine-fingered Nana.

Penny: Okay, back to the ring. Does Amy even know about this?
Sheldon: No. She broke up with me before I could broach the subject.

Leonard: Oh, man, I’m sorry, that must have been devastating for you.
Sheldon: No, not at all. No, I’m fine. You know, Amy had reservations about our relationship, so all worked out for the best.

Adam: Did you find that helpful?
Sheldon: Yes. Oh, for example, three years ago when I discovered Penny was eating all my Pop-Tarts, instead of getting angry or vindictive, you know, I got a floor safe.

Adam: What about from when you were a kid?
Sheldon: Oh, certainly. Uh, when I was eight years old, Billy Sparks cornered me in the playground. I asked myself what would Spock do? Then I grabbed Billy on his shoulder and performed my first Vulcan nerve pinch.

Adam: Did it work?
Sheldon: Oh, no, he broke my collarbone. I can still hear it click.

Adam: That must have been very upsetting for you.
Sheldon: Oh, not at all. As I said, the entire point of emulating Spock was to rise above human emotion, which I’ve spent a lifetime mastering.

Penny: Oh pfft.
Sheldon: Excuse me?

Penny: I’m sorry. I’m not here.
Sheldon: No. You went pfft. What does pfft mean?

Penny: I’m just saying, you pretend you don’t, but you have feelings just like everybody else.
Sheldon: Not true. No, look at me. I had an engagement ring to give a girl, and instead, she rejected me. And am I emotional about that? No. No, I am sitting here on a couch, talking about my favourite TV character like nothing happened. ‘Cause I am just like him, all logical, all the time.

Penny: Sweetie, you’re yelling.
Sheldon: Because when I speak at a regular volume, no one seems to believe me that I’ve put this Amy nonsense behind me.

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Hey, buddy. How you doing?
Sheldon: Better. Did Wil and Adam leave?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: Do you think they’re going to put my outburst in the documentary?

Penny: Definitely.
Sheldon: Well, there’s no point in dwelling on it. As the Vulcans say, Kup-fun-tor ha’kiv na’ish Du stau.

Leonard: Nirsh.
Sheldon: Well, this is ridiculous. Being upset about Amy all the time isn’t accomplishing anything. If I want to resolve this situation, then I need to take action.

Penny: What are you gonna do?
Sheldon: I’m going to find her and ask her to marry me. And if she says yes, we can put this behind us and resume our relationship. And if she says no, well, then she can just ponfo miran.

Spock (on screen): Because she feels. I don’t. All I know is logic.
Sheldon: Yeah, right. You can just shut your feelings off. There goes television, lying to us again. We let you raise our children, and this is the thanks we get. Leonard, how could I have been so foolish to try and follow in the footsteps of a made-up alien race with no emotions?

Leonard: Well now instead of idolizing fictional characters, you can focus on the real people who are already in your life.
Sheldon: Those are very wise words.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: They’d just be so much more comforting if they came out of a television.

Penny: Oh, I don’t want credit for that.
Sheldon: Oh, Dr. and Mrs. Hofstadter, lovely to see you this fine morning.

Leonard: You’re in a good mood.
Sheldon: Yeah, I am indeed. I have decided, instead of wallowing in sadness about Amy, it is time that I find myself a new female companion.

Leonard: What brought this on?
Sheldon: I realized something. When Amy was in my life, I was hyper-focused on my work and ignored her.

Penny: And you don’t want to make the same mistake with the next woman.
Sheldon: No, I need a new woman in my life to ignore so I can hyper-focus on my work again.

Leonard: Hey, I made French toast sticks.
Sheldon: On oatmeal day?

Leonard: Ah, I also made oatmeal.
Sheldon: Ooh, that’s a lot of carbohydrates for a man on the prowl. You know what? You eat it. You’re married, it doesn’t matter what you look like.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Thank you for coming by, gentlemen.

Raj: So what’s up?
Sheldon: Well, it was the two of you who found Amy Farrah Fowler for me. Now that I’m looking for my next girlfriend, it seemed only logical that I employ your services once again.

Howard: You sure you’re up for that? She did hurt you.
Sheldon: Oh, no, it’s all right. I think of my time with Amy as a stick of Fruit Stripe gum. Sweet and enjoyable at first, but ultimately a flavourless lump of sadness.

Raj: Hey, the jaw wants what it wants.
Sheldon: Gentlemen.

Howard: But what are you looking for?
Sheldon: All I’m looking for is an educated, intelligent woman who shares my interests while retaining her own unique point of view. She should be kind, patient, and most important, unable to imagine life without me by ten o’clock tonight.

Howard: Isn’t that a little unreasonable?
Sheldon: All right, fine, she doesn’t need her own point of view. Now, chop-chop.

Howard: I think the quickest way to find you a new girlfriend is just to get you on every dating Web site out there.
Sheldon: Are you sure? I’ve heard that on those sites, often when you think you’re corresponding with someone, it’s actually a computer program pretending to be a real person.

Raj: And you’re afraid it’ll do a better job than you?
Sheldon: Excuse me. No one does a better job pretending to be a person than I do. Siri comes close, but I know more jokes.

Howard: If you don’t want to use dating Web sites, what do you suggest?
Sheldon: Off the top of my head? Uh, prospective women weed themselves out in a battle of wits until only one champion remains, and she shows up at my door flush with the thrill of victory, and then sits quietly by my side while I watch Daredevil.

Howard: You seriously think women would fight for you?
Sheldon: People compete for jobs and trophies, why not me?

Howard: Well, he’s smart, he’s a respected scientist.
Sheldon: And I have the soulful eyes of a cow.

Howard: I have an idea. What if we put a post on Craigslist that says world-class Caltech physicist seeking girlfriend. If interested, solve the following puzzles for a chance to meet him.
Sheldon: Oh, we’ll make the puzzles extremely challenging to eliminate unworthy candidates.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: That’s it. The Sheldon Cooper Girlfriend Challenge is officially live.

Raj: This is exciting.
Sheldon: Right now, somewhere, a woman is dividing the atomic weight of the best noble gas by the number of colours in the oldest national flag still in use.

Howard: Then using that number as the average speed to calculate the travel time from Mordor to the Shire.
Sheldon: And, taking her first step towards a lifetime of laughter, love and, best of all, rules.

Howard: Well, if she can solve them, it’ll prove she’s intelligent, tenacious and so socially awkward she has nothing better to do on a Saturday night.
Sheldon: Golly, she sounds too good to be true.

Raj: 37 minutes left until the deadline.
Sheldon: Someone will show.

Raj: Not as fun as the night we blew up grapes in the microwave. We really have led full lives.
Sheldon: Someone will show.

Raj: Maybe you don’t want someone exactly like you. You know what they say, opposites attract.
Sheldon: Well, by that logic, I should be with someone short, dull and needy, eh? Not to cast aspersions, but I can’t shake a stick around here without hitting that.

Raj: Sixty seconds. This is not looking good.
Sheldon: One minute is a long time.

Raj: Forty-five.
Sheldon: 45 seconds is plenty of time for a woman to walk through that door and fall in love with me. You know, probably half that if I break out the old cow eyes.

Raj: Thirty seconds.
Sheldon: Uh-oh. What if it’s Jennifer Lawrence?

Howard: What?
Sheldon: Well, that last Hunger Games was not my cup of tea.

Howard: You thought she was great in X-Men.
Sheldon: Oh, fine, I won’t shut my heart to the love of Jennifer Lawrence.

Howard: Maybe she’s waiting to show up at the last possible moment.
Sheldon: Sounds like a drama queen. Oh, no. It is Jennifer Lawrence.

Raj: Answer it.
Sheldon: All right. Can I help you?

Girl: Um, are you the physicist that placed the ad on Craigslist?
Sheldon: Yes.

Girl: Hi. I’m Vanessa Bennett. Sorry it took a while for me to get here. I was stuck in this boring symposium on atomic spectroscopy when I came across your ad, and it saved my night. The puzzles were, were really fun. I’ve never had to translate Klingon into ancient Sanskrit before.
Sheldon: Careful, it’s addictive.

Vanessa: Chija”e’vlKub je. Or, as they say in Sanskrit, Ahm asman matey-bee ta-teyva.
Sheldon: And just like that, you’re a Klingon-Sanskrit junkie.

Vanessa: Anyway, I, I just, I knew I had to meet the person responsible for such a brilliant idea. And I don’t need to tell you, there aren’t a lot of men who love physics, archaic languages and flags of the world.
Sheldon: I am a bit of a unicorn. Well, you certainly seem like a special lady, uh, but as you know, you missed the deadline, so thanks for playing.

Raj: How could you send her away?
Sheldon: She was late. And she found atomic spectroscopy boring. Well, I wouldn’t coitus her with your genitals.

Siri: Here are some images of naked grandma butts.
Sheldon: Hey. Good news, everybody. Now that I’m no longer with Amy, I have an extra ticket to the annual Thanksgiving lunch buffet at the aquarium cafeteria. Who wants it? Well, you realize you won’t be going alone, I’ll be there the whole time. Providing fish and pilgrim facts. Can you people hear me?

Bernadette: And Raj and I are volunteering at the soup kitchen, feeding food to the homeless.
Sheldon: Well, Howard, what about you?

Amy (on skype): Hi, Sheldon. What’s up?
Sheldon: Well, I’m calling because Thanksgiving is coming up, and I wanted to offer you the aquarium tickets.

Amy: No one can go with you?
Sheldon: No. They’d rather spend the holiday with each other than find out of this is the year I finally touch a starfish. Anyway, I wouldn’t want the tickets to go to waste, so take whomever you’d like.

Amy: Oh. Okay. Thank you.
Sheldon: And feel free to tell your guest that the Myanmar catfish is also known as the pilgrim fish. In case the turkey’s dry and you need something juicy.

Amy: Sheldon, I can tell you want to go, so if you’d be comfortable with it, maybe we could go as friends.
Sheldon: You don’t think that will be awkward?

Amy: Well it is Thanksgiving in an aquarium cafeteria, so I’m gonna go out on a limb here and say yes. But if you mean between us, I think it’ll be fine.
Sheldon: Very well, then. I’ll see you on Thanksgiving morning.

Amy: See you then.
Sheldon: Oh, and forget what I said about the Myanmar catfish. My list of marine-themed pilgrim facts is pretty short.

Amy: Did you know they served shellfish and eel at the very first Thanksgiving?
Sheldon: And there goes my list.

Scene: Amy’s car.
Sheldon: Hello.

Amy: Hi. Ready for the aquarium?
Sheldon: I am. You know, and in an effort to reduce awkwardness as we learn how to function as friends, I printed out a list of safe topics for polite conversation.

Amy: If that makes you more comfortable.
Sheldon: If there were a list of things that make me more comfortable, lists would be on the top of that list. Okay, now, oh, since last we spoke, have you acquired any pets?

Amy: No. You?
Sheldon: No. Um, since last we spoke, have you planned or gone on any vacations?

Amy: I might go visit my aunt next week.
Sheldon: Mm. Your aunt in Modesto?

Amy: No, the one in Bakersfield.
Sheldon: Bakersfield. I see. Where has this list been all my life?

Scene: Amy’s car. 
Sheldon: and then the next day was 73 degrees, and the day after that was 72, and then it was 72 again, uh, then it was 74, and that brings us to today, at I’d wear shorts if I had a pair. 78.

Amy: Are we done discussing the weather?
Sheldon: I don’t know if I’d call it discussing. You kind of sat back and let me do all the work. Let’s see, what’s next on the list. Oh, uh, do you whittle, and if so, what kind of knife do you use.

Amy: Sheldon. We’ve known each other a long time. We are perfectly capable of having a conversation without relying on a list off the Internet.
Sheldon: All right. Well, what should we talk about?

Amy: I don’t know. Just ask me whatever comes to mind.
Sheldon: Very well. I know you’ve been seeing other men. Have you had coitus with any of them?

Scene: Amy’s car.
Sheldon: I’m sensing things have gotten awkward.

Amy: No. It’s okay. If we’re friends, we should be able to talk about anything.
Sheldon: All right.

Amy: So, you had some questions about me seeing other people.
Sheldon: Just a few.

Amy: Go ahead.
Sheldon: How many dates have you been on? Who were they with? Where’d you go? Where did you meet them? Did you sleep with them? And how much longer to the aquarium? I’m getting kind of hungry.

Amy: Let’s see. I have been on six dates with three different people. It was either for coffee or dinner. One I met at a bookstore and two I met online. I haven’t slept with anyone. The aquarium is 40 minutes away. And there’s a baggie of Cheerios for you in the glove compartment.
Sheldon: Is that regular or honey nut?

Amy: I mixed them.
Sheldon: You mixed them. No wonder gentleman callers are pounding down your door. Do you have any questions for me?

Amy: Just one. Are you doing okay?
Sheldon: I am.

Amy: Good. I want you to be happy.
Sheldon: I believe you. I’d believe you more if you threw a few Apple Jacks in here.

Scene: The aquarium. 
Sheldon: You know, for a Thanksgiving buffet in an aquarium cafeteria, that was really bad.

Amy: You’re just upset ’cause they ran out of Pilgrim hats.
Sheldon: They gave one to that baby. He wasn’t even awake.

Amy: Well, it wouldn’t be a holiday without you being mad at a baby.
Sheldon: Oh. Would you care to play an ocean-themed game I invented?

Amy: Sure. What is it?
Sheldon: It’s called Food, Friend, Fight. One of us chooses three aquatic creatures, and the other one must decide which he would eat, befriend, or battle.

Amy: So it’s like Kiss, Marry, Kill.
Sheldon: What is that?

Amy: It’s a game where you’re given three people and you choose which one you’d kiss, marry, or kill.
Sheldon: Well, my game is better, ’cause instead of marrying someone, you get to eat them.

Amy: Let’s just play.
Sheldon: I’ll start you off easy. Electric eel, pufferfish, shrimp.

Amy: Hmm. Well, I wouldn’t fight the eel, because I know it can generate enough current to kill a horse. So I’d eat the eel, fight the shrimp, and befriend the pufferfish, because it would be nice to have company on those days I feel bloated.
Sheldon: Very well done.

Amy: Thank you. Okay, your turn. Hmm. Seal, hagfish, SpongeBob SquarePants.
Sheldon: Well, I’d befriend SpongeBob but he’s not real, so I can’t do that, can I?

Amy: But you can pal around with a hagfish?
Sheldon: Hey, let’s not pull at that thread. Okay. I’ll fight SpongeBob, because he’s so friendly we’ll just end up tickling each other. Um, I’ll befriend the seal, because he’s trainable, which is the problem I’m having with my current friends. Which means I’ll have to eat the hagfish.

Amy: Isn’t that gross? I mean, a hagfish can produce enough mucus to fill a bucket in a minute.
Sheldon: I know. It makes its own gravy, it’ll slide right down.

Amy: I miss this.
Sheldon: How can you miss a game you’ve never played before, silly?

Leonard: I’m glad you had a nice time with Amy.
Sheldon: Me, too. It’s comforting to know that she and I are able to function as friends.

Penny: Well, I’ve never been friends with any of my exes.
Sheldon: Oh, I’m sure you and Leonard will be able to pull it off. (Phone rings) Oh. It’s my friend Amy. Hello.

Amy: Hi, Sheldon. I’m just driving home from my mother’s.
Sheldon: Did you have a nice time?

Amy: I did. Um, listen, I really enjoyed spending this morning with you.
Sheldon: Well, I can’t take all the credit. It was pretty funny when that one anchovy started going the wrong way.

Amy: It was. Uh, listen, I, I was thinking that, um, maybe I’m ready to be your girlfriend again.
Sheldon: Oh. I thought we were just friends.

Amy: We are. But I was hoping, maybe…
Sheldon: Amy, I excel at many things, but getting over you wasn’t one of them. I think I need to just be your friend.

Amy: Okay. I understand.
Sheldon: Good. Oh, I watched a video of the hagfish producing mucus, so I’m gonna change my answer and eat SpongeBob.

Scene: Sheldon’s bedroom.
Sheldon: Sheldon Cooper’s descent into madness, day two. It’s 2:25 a.m., and I feel the urge to urinate. My normal urination time is 7:10 a.m., but here I am, in the middle of the night, struggling to keep my mind sharp and my pajamas dry. It’s only a matter of time before my tenuous grasp on reality fades. I suppose I should pee while I still know what a toilet is.

Leonard: Since when do you hum songs?
Sheldon: What are you talking about?

Leonard: You were just humming.
Sheldon: Are you sure? Sometimes when my brain really gets moving, it makes noise.

Leonard: How does your brain feel about calculating the surface tension of the domain walls?
Sheldon: Let’s see. Hey, I was humming. One point for Hufflepuff. What song is that?

Leonard: Whatever. Can we just get back to this?
Sheldon: I feel like I know what song that is, but I can’t put my finger on it. (Singing) My country, ’tis of thee. No.

Leonard: It’s just an earworm. It’ll come to you.
Sheldon: Okay. (Singing) R-E-S-P-E-C-T. No.

Penny: Yeah. So you have a song stuck in your head. It happens to everybody.
Sheldon: Well, I’m not everybody. I have an eidetic memory. I should be able to remember what song this is, but I can’t. Something’s wrong with me.

Penny: I told you if we were patient, he’d figure it out for himself.
Sheldon: I was always afraid this day would come. This might be the first step of my descent into madness, where I gradually test the limits of public nudity.

Penny: Hey, sweetie, why don’t you take a break and do something else for a while?
Sheldon: There was a project I’ve been thinking about starting.

Penny: Okay, great. What is it?
Sheldon: I’ll show you. (Into phone camera) Dear Crazy Future Sheldon, you were driven mad by an earworm. Your mind, once your most trusted asset, is now a sack of parrots and monkeys. So, I’m going to tell you everything you need to know. Uh, first, music is dangerous. The movie Footloose tried to warn us, but we wouldn’t listen. Oh, wait. (Singing) Everyody cut footloose. Nope.

Penny: I’ll pay a thousand dollars to watch you cut footloose.
Sheldon: This is Penny. She is your friend. If she offers you food, it’s safe to take it. You probably paid for it, anyway.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Dear Crazy Future Sheldon, this is a thermostat. It controls the temperature of the apartment. The ideal setting is 72 degrees. If you find this too cold, then put on a jacket. A straitjacket, ’cause 72’s the best and you’re crazy. Now, this is your spot. You’re very protective of it. When anyone else tries to sit here, you berate them relentlessly. It sounds mean, but somehow you make it adorable. People are also delighted by your love of pranks. For example, Leonard has no idea what I did to his coffee. It wasn’t replace it with Folger’s crystals, I’ll tell you that much.

Leonard: Hey, can we please get back to work?
Sheldon: This is Leonard. He’s your best friend in the world.

Leonard: All right, just stop. This is ridiculous.
Sheldon: Sometimes he gets cranky, but you can trust him with your life. And he does more things for you than I can even begin to list.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: Oh, no, he’s drinking it.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Bah, bam, bum-bum, bah, bum, bum. This song is never going to stop. Have you ever dealt with something so relentlessly irritating?

Leonard: That’s a trick question, right?
Sheldon: Well, I shouldn’t be surprised. There’s a rich history of brilliant minds descending into madness.

Leonard: Yup, she’s right. For every Newton who had a psychological issue, there’s an Edison who was just a jerk. That could totally be you.
Sheldon: Empedocles thought he was a god and jumped into a volcano. And Pythagoras had an irrational fear of beans. Tesla fell madly in love with a pigeon who he claimed loved him back.

Penny: Maybe he just had bread in his pocket.
Sheldon: The list extends outside of science. Painters like Van Gogh and Pollock, chess champion Bobby Fischer, Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys. (Clip of Darling by the Beach Boys) I remember the song. It’s called Darlin’ by the Beach Boys. Oh, thank goodness. I’m not crazy. I don’t have to take a pigeon as my bride.

Scene: The apartment. Sheldon is listening to Darlin’
Sheldon: I wonder why it was this particular song that was stuck in my head.

Penny: Do you even like the Beach Boys?
Sheldon: They have beach right in the name. What do you think?

Leonard: Well, now that you can focus again, what do you say we get back to surface tension of domain walls?
Sheldon: Of course. I’m already seeing a more efficient way of taming the ultravi… I know why the song was in my head.

Penny: Why?
Sheldon: It’s about Amy.

Penny: Okay, look, I know Amy’s like an old lady, but she’s not old enough to have a song from the sixties written about her.
Sheldon: It’s about how she made my life better. Consider the lyrics. I was living like half a man. Then I couldn’t love, but now I can. More soul than I ever had. I love the way you soften my life.”

Penny: She did soften your life, didn’t she?
Sheldon: Yes. She’s like the dryer sheets of my heart. I have to go.

Amy: You know, I’m just being silly. I, I don’t know what I’m waiting for.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy? (Knock, knock, knock) Amy?

Amy: Sheldon, this, this isn’t a good time.
Sheldon: I don’t care. Amy, there was a song I couldn’t get out of my head. Eventually, I realized the song was about you, and like that earworm, I can’t get you out of my heart. So, what I’m trying to say is, you’re my heartworm. The metaphorical kind, not, not the poodle-killing kind.

Dave: If I may, I believe what he’s saying, in a charming and delightful way, is that he loves you and wants you back. Dave Gibbs, huge fan of your work. Don’t mind me.
Sheldon: I’m, I’m sorry; I didn’t realize you were on a date.

Amy: No, it, it, it’s okay. Keep going?
Sheldon: Amy, if you want to be my girlfriend again, I really want to be your boyfriend.

Amy: I really want that, too.
Sheldon: Good. Because I love you.

Dave: Kiss her, you brilliant fool.
Sheldon: Well, I’ll let you get back to your date.

Leonard: Guys, tickets already went on sale.
Sheldon: What?

Leonard: No, it’s Steel Magnolias 2: Even Steelier.
Sheldon: The Web site’s frozen. I can’t get in.

Howard: What are we gonna do?!
Sheldon: All right, this goes against everything I stand for, but desperate times call for desperate measures. Lord, this is Sheldon Cooper. You’re good friends with my mom. I know I’ve spent my life denying that you exist.

Howard: Got ’em.
Sheldon: And I will continue to do so!

Penny: I’m really happy you and Amy are back together.
Sheldon: Oh, thank you.

Leonard: I’m also really happy, but I can’t pretend it’s for you. New Star Wars in three days.
Sheldon: Hey, Thursday can’t get here soon enough. I’m taking off work to watch the original trilogy while I eat enough Star Wars cereal to choke a Wookiee.

Penny: Uh, sweetie, you do realize Thursday is Amy’s birthday.
Sheldon: And you do realize I bought my ticket when Amy and I were broken up? I hope you didn’t need anything in that case, ’cause it’s closed.

Leonard: I think Penny has a point. You can see it another day.
Sheldon: But someone might spoil the movie. No one can spoil Amy’s birthday for me. Surprise, she’s even older. Who saw that coming?

Arthur: Oh, great. This again.
Sheldon: Arthur, what brings you back?

Arthur: Uh, beats me. I, I just hope this isn’t a, a sex dream.
Sheldon: In the past, you’ve come to me when I’m struggling with a dilemma.

Arthur: And, and the one time where, where you were afraid, and you needed me for, for a night light. What’s, what’s troubling you?
Sheldon: Well, my friends are telling me I shouldn’t abandon my girlfriend on her birthday to see the new Star Wars movie.

Arthur: Well, sounds right. Can, can I get out of this muumuu now?
Sheldon: Those are the robes of the Jedi, the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy.

Arthur: And they, they, they don’t wear underwear.
Sheldon: So, you agree with my friends that I should skip the premiere?

Arthur: Uh, do, do you love this girl?
Sheldon: Yes. But she knows how important Star Wars is to me.

Arthur: Well, maybe you should show her how, how important she is to you.
Sheldon: By seeing the movie she’d want me to see?

Arthur: Sheldon, you, you can see this movie whenever you want. But you only have a limited number of days that you, you can be with this woman. Be with her.
Sheldon: You’re right.

Arthur: Great.
Sheldon: Where are you going?

Amy (answering phone): Sheldon, what’s wrong?
Sheldon: I wanted to let you know I’ll be spending your birthday with you.

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: See, I, I had tickets to the Star Wars premiere that night, but Professor Proton came to me in a dream dressed as Obi-Wan Kenobi and convinced me I should be with you.

Amy: Obi-what?
Sheldon: I’ll, I’ll let you get back to sleep now. Good night.

Amy: Okay. Good night. Wait. Um, Sheldon, were you actually not gonna spend my birthday with me?
Sheldon: It’s late. Got to go. Bye.

Howard: Well, we could wait a couple days and see it together. (all laugh) 
Sheldon: Hello.

Leonard: Hey. We’re going to the comic book store. You want to come?
Sheldon: No, I can’t. I need to make preparations for Amy’s birthday. Which leads me to the following bit of business. This is my ticket to Star Wars. I don’t have to tell you it is worth far more than its face value of fifteen dollars and fifty cents. I trust you’ll give it to someone worthy.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Penny.

Bernadette: Come in.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Bernadette. (Knock, knock, knock) Bernadette. (Knock, knock, knock) Bernadette.

Penny: Come in.
Sheldon: Keep it up. I got nowhere else to be.

Bernadette: Just come in.
Sheldon: For future reference, if I want to watch Mean Girls, I’ll stream it on Netflix.

Penny: We’re sorry. What do you need?
Sheldon: Well, as you know, I’ll be celebrating Amy’s birthday with her, and I could use your assistance in helping me select the perfect gift.

Bernadette: Sure.
Sheldon: Well, so far, I’ve come up with three ideas. The first is a chance for her to play the harp with the L.A. Philharmonic.

Penny: Wow. You can really arrange that?
Sheldon: Well, I said a chance, you know. When you tell them it’s your birthday at Bennigan’s, they make a fuss. I don’t see why the Philharmonic would be any different.

Bernadette: How about something a little more realistic?
Sheldon: Well, Amy enjoys knitting her own sweaters, so I was thinking of getting her an all-expense-paid trip to the Wisconsin Sheep and Wool Festival.

Bernadette: Hold on. It could be romantic. The two of them away together, keeping each other warm in snowy Wisconsin.
Sheldon: No, no, no, no. She’d be going alone. Well, if you think I’m afraid of birds, you should see me around sheep.

Penny: Okay, well, what’s the third option?
Sheldon: That I have coitus with her.

Bernadette: Wild thang.
Sheldon: Which do you think she’d prefer? Because I checked the Sheep and Wool Festival Web site, and there’s only 8,000 tickets left.

Bernadette: Yeah, are you ready for this?
Sheldon: Intimacy in any form has been challenging for me, but I’d like to show her how important she is, and it feels like now might be the right time.

Penny: Sheldon, that’s so beautiful.
Sheldon: Then it’s settled. Amy’s birthday present will be my genitals.

Arthur: Why isn’t it ever Angie Dickinson’s bedroom?
Sheldon: You’re back.

Arthur: It, it doesn’t seem like it’s up to me.
Sheldon: I suppose you’re here because I’ve decided to be physical with my girlfriend, and I’ve never done that before.

Arthur: Eh, excuse me for a moment. Well, it was worth a shot.
Sheldon: So, can you help me?

Arthur: Uh, all right. Um, once, once the man gets the, the woman out of her, out of her bloomers…
Sheldon: Oh, no. Not that. I, I understand the mechanics.

Arthur: Oh, good, good. ‘Cause, uh, I have no idea what kids these days are calling their, their parts.
Sheldon: I think they say junk.

Arthur: What is happening to this world? What, what do you actually need to know?
Sheldon: This is an important night for us, and I’m worried I might be overwhelmed and ruin everything.

Arthur: Sheldon, if, if you’re with the right person, it, it’ll be okay.
Sheldon: Thank you, Arthur. You are the wisest of the wise.

Arthur: Well, that’s, that’s very nice of you to say, but I think I’m just an expression of, of your unconscious mind.
Sheldon: Oh, sure. Well, you’re fun to look at.

Scene: Amy’s apartment. 
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Birthday girl. (Knock, knock, knock) Birthday girl. (Knock, knock, knock) Birthday girl.

Amy: Come in.
Sheldon: Oh.

Amy: Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello. Sorry I’m late. I also got you a balloon, but it floated away, and I chased it for a while.

Amy: That’s okay. Come on in. Thank you. Um, I’ll, I’m gonna go put these in water.
Sheldon: Okay. Ooh, this is different, hmm? Candles and music.

Amy: Do you like it?
Sheldon: It’s kind of spooky.

Amy: I can change it back.
Sheldon: No, no, no. It’s your birthday. As long as no one jumps out in a hockey mask, I’ll be fine.

Amy: So, what’d you have in mind for tonight?
Sheldon: I thought I could take you out to a nice birthday dinner. If we pick a place east of here, we might find the balloon.

Amy: Um, that sounds nice, but I’m not really hungry right now. I thought maybe we could do presents first.
Sheldon: Oh. All right. Um. I should probably tell you something about this gift.

Amy: You mean before you give it to me?
Sheldon: Yes. May I ask you a question before I give it to you?

Amy: Of course.
Sheldon: Why are we saying give it to you like that?

Amy: Sheldon, I know your present is for us to be intimate tonight.
Sheldon: I see. Is that all right? I’m sorry, but this is a litigious society. I’m gonna need verbal consent.

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: You know what, let me pull a quick contract off the Internet.

Amy: Hi.
Sheldon: Hello.

Amy: So, um, should I get under the covers with you?
Sheldon: All right. Hello.

Amy: Hi.
Sheldon: Why are you shaking? Are you cold?

Amy: I’m just, um, really nervous.
Sheldon: Why?

Amy: Well, I’ve been waiting for this for so long, I’ve just built it up in my head. I don’t know what to expect.
Sheldon: Neither do I. But we can find out together.

Caption: A few hours later, in a bedroom not far away….
Sheldon: Well, I enjoyed that more than I thought I would.

Amy: Me, too.
Sheldon: I look forward to your next birthday when we do it again.

Arthur: Uh, Sheldon? Sheldon?
Sheldon: Arthur. What are you doing here? I, I don’t think I need any more advice.

Arthur: I, I was just curious. How, how’d it go?
Sheldon: Oh. It was amazing. I, I saw it a few days later. What a movie.

Arthur: But, uh, what, what about Amy?
Sheldon: Oh. Uh, uh, she liked it fine. But she doesn’t have the history with the franchise I do.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I’m glad to see you made it safely. How’s your hotel?

Amy (on Skype): It’s not the best Best Western I’ve been to, but I’d say it’s the third best Best Western I’ve been to.
Sheldon: I know how you feel. The Best Buy by my house is only the third best Best Buy. They have the best buys, but having the best buys isn’t the only thing that makes a Best Buy the best Best Buy.

Amy: What makes a best Best Buy the best Best Buy?
Sheldon: Mm, that’s a great question. I like when they’re next to a Chipotle.

Amy: Okay, well, I should unpack.
Sheldon: All right. Enjoy the neurobiology conference.

Amy: I will. I wish you were here.
Sheldon: At a neurobiology conference? What a mean thing to say.

Amy: Okay, I’m glad you’re not here?
Sheldon: Aw, you always know just what to say after I tell you what to say.

Amy: Good-bye, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Bye. Oh, good news, gentlemen. Amy’s at a conference this weekend, which means I’m available to be entertained, hmm. As today’s youth might put it, who wants to get their Sheld-on?

Howard: Bernie and I are getting the house ready for the remodel. We could always use an extra pair of hands.
Sheldon: That sounds awful. Raj?

Raj: Uh, I’ve got time booked in the telescope room all weekend scanning for rogue planets. You’re more than welcome to join me.
Sheldon: That’s the one to beat. Leonard?

Leonard: Oh, if anything, I’m trying to get my Sheld-off.
Sheldon: Well, then it looks like we have a winner. Congratulations.

Raj: Well, I should warn you, it’s just looking at data for hours and hours on a computer screen.
Sheldon: Uh, stop selling it, kid. You won.

Penny: Oh, not good. Still couldn’t get in to see Dr. Gallo.
Sheldon: A doctor? Well, I hope you’re not contagious. I’ve got a weekend in the telescope room I’ve been excited about for almost three minutes.

Howard: Social anxiety.
Sheldon: Sexual insecurity.

Raj: Lack of confidence.
Sheldon: Kind of a wuss.

Howard: Spineless.
Sheldon: Still hasn’t bought milk even though I told him two days ago.

Scene: The telescope room.
Sheldon: What are you doing?

Raj: Uh, making sure the telescope’s camera is white-field balanced.
Sheldon: Hmm. What are you doing now?

Raj: Still making sure the telescope’s camera is white-field balanced.
Sheldon: Oh, I see. How about now?

Raj: Now I’m making sure the telescope’s camera is white-field balanced and wishing you had a colouring book.
Sheldon: Well, I can be helpful. Give me something to do. You know, my father took me to work once, and in ten minutes I figured out who’d been stealing from the cash register. It was my father. Yeah, Dad lost his job, but Mr. Hinckley gave me a Fudgsicle.

Raj: Fine, you want something to do? There’s about six months of data on this hard drive. Why don’t you go through it and see if you can spot any patterns or anomalies.
Sheldon: Yep, I’m on it. Hey, look at that, an Indian guy outsourcing a computer job to a white fella.

Raj: Yeah, okay, whatever it takes to keep you busy for a few hours.
Sheldon: Found one.

Raj: No, you didn’t. There are millions of data points there.
Sheldon: But, look, an optical transient.

Raj: Yeah, maybe that is something. How did you find that?
Sheldon: It wasn’t difficult. You know how when you see prime numbers, they appear red, but when they’re twin primes, they’re pink and smell like gasoline?

Raj: No.
Sheldon: Oh. I guess I’m a special boy. You know, sometimes when a boy is special, he gets a Fudgsicle. Which, by the way, tastes like the speed of light.

Raj: Okay, so once we receive the next image and compare it to the ones we’ve already collected, we’ll know what it is that we found.
Sheldon: Ooh, perhaps it’s a Heliosheath scintillation.

Raj: It could be a trans-Neptunian object.
Sheldon: Maybe it’s a new planet.

Raj: Unlikely, but it could be a dwarf planet.
Sheldon: Well, as long as it has a healthy gravity and all its moons, I’ll be happy.

Raj: Okay, the final image is coming in. And the object we discovered is…
Sheldon: Come on, Daddy needs a livable planet he can rule with an iron fist.

Raj: A medium-sized asteroid.
Sheldon: That’s it? How common. That’s the chicken fingers on the menu of space.

Raj: I kind of like chicken fingers.
Sheldon: Yeah, me, too. I was stuck for a metaphor.

Raj: Come on, a medium-sized asteroid is still an interesting discovery.
Sheldon: I suppose it could end up on a collision course with Earth and destroy life as we know it.

Raj: You dream different than me.
Sheldon: It is kind of cute.

Raj: Yeah, it is. And you know we get to name it.
Sheldon: We better choose a name no one can make fun of. Sir Frederick William Herschel didn’t do Uranus any favours.

Raj: So I was thinking, maybe we can come up with a name for the asteroid by combining our names.
Sheldon: That’s a great idea. I’ve got it. We’ll call it Cooper.

Raj: How is that both our names?
Sheldon: Koo from Koothrappali and per from Cooper.

Raj: Yeah, s-so it’s, like, Kooper with a K?
Sheldon: Nah, you’re right, that’s dumb.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Oh, Leonard, great news. We discovered a medium-sized asteroid together.

Leonard: Wow, that’s amazing. I’m in a pretty great mood today myself.
Sheldon: Okay. Guess we’re gonna talk about you now.

Raj: I learned that for free from a cat poster, but good for you.
Sheldon: Okay, back to me. I discovered an asteroid, and now I get to name it.

Raj: Wait, what happened to us?
Sheldon: Now, this isn’t about us, this is about what’s best for the asteroid.

Leonard: Well, what are you thinking of naming it?
Sheldon: I haven’t settled on anything yet.

Raj: We haven’t settled on anything yet.
Sheldon: All right, way to go, Cat Poster. You hang in there.

Raj: That is a great idea.
Sheldon: It’s perfect. It appears romantic, but it’s really just a rock in space that gets me out of Valentine’s Day forever.

Raj: So, uh, what were you thinking? Combine their names?
Sheldon: I like it. Yeah, we’ll take the A-M from Amy and, uh, the Y from Emily.

Raj: That’s just Amy.
Sheldon: Exactly. See how well we work together?

Amy (on Skype): Hi, Sheldon. What’s up?
Sheldon: Good news. You’re an asteroid.

Amy: Uh, please tell me what to say next.
Sheldon: Perhaps I should explain. While working with Koothrappali, we discovered an asteroid, and I named it after you.

Amy: Oh. Sheldon, thank you. That’s so romantic. But what about Rajesh? He was okay with you choosing the name?
Sheldon: Well, it took a little negotiating, but I wore him down. Uh, we get the asteroid, and if you and I have children, they all have to be named Rajesh.

Amy: All of them?
Sheldon: Even the girls.

Amy (on Skype): I miss you.
Sheldon: I miss you as well.

Leonard: And it’s gone.
Sheldon: Oh, hello, everyone. I am happy to report I’m feeling much better.

Leonard: Good for you.
Sheldon: My fever is gone, my sinuses are pressure-free, and my mucus is as clear as a Yosemite waterfall.

Howard: Glad to hear it.
Sheldon: I’ll be able to return to work tomorrow.

Raj: Yay.
Sheldon: Well, why isn’t everyone happy? Your little ray of sunshine is ready to beam again.

Penny: You really don’t know why?
Sheldon: No. But I knew that his yay was sarcastic. Not bad for a guy whose last bowel movement sounded like rain on a roof.

Flashback
Sheldon: Penny, rub Vicks on my chest.

Penny: Sheldon, I cooked you breakfast. I made your bed. I checked your mouth for thrush. You can rub your own chest.
Sheldon: Oh, sure, grope every other male on the planet, but draw the line with me.

Bernadette: I brought you a little care package from work. It’s our latest antiviral and the best decongestant we make.
Sheldon: I hope laughter is the best medicine, ’cause this care package is a joke.

Raj: Sheldon, stop being a baby and let Emily take a look at you.
Sheldon: She’s a dermatologist.

Emily: I went to medical school.
Sheldon: Well, in that case, try removing the irritating patch of brown skin standing next to you.

Leonard: All right, here you go.
Sheldon: Leonard, I’m dying.

Leonard: You’re not dying. It’s just the flu.
Sheldon: I asked for chicken noodle. This is chicken and stars. It’s killing me.

Back to the present.
Sheldon: I never did get that chicken noodle, did I?

Amy (on Skype): Hi, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Hello.

Amy: Are you feeling any better?
Sheldon: Physically, yes, but I’m upset because everyone’s mad at me for no good reason.

Amy: Why don’t you tell me what happened, and in a gentle, loving way, I’ll explain to you why you’re wrong.
Sheldon: You know how, when you’re sick, you’re allowed to be cranky and say whatever you want and other people’s feelings don’t matter?

Amy: Ooh. Gentle and loving, this is gonna be tricky.
Sheldon: I had a hundred and one fever. If that’s not a time to verbally abuse my loved ones, when is?

Amy: Sheldon, when you’re sick, you can be unbearable. That’s why your friends have been known to work late or sneak out to the movies or stay at a neurobiology conference three days after it’s ended.
Sheldon: You stayed in Michigan all week to avoid being around me?

Amy: No, no, not just that. I mean, Detroit is beautiful when it’s sleeting.
Sheldon: You know, I’m not the only one who’s unpleasant when they’re sick. When Penny got food poisoning, she threw up so loudly I could barely hear the television.

Leonard: This weekend.
Sheldon: Oh, where are we going?

Leonard: Well, Vegas, but…
Sheldon: Ugh, Atlantic City without the taffy? No, thank you.

Leonard: That’s fine, ’cause actually you’re not invited.
Sheldon: Well, now, well, that’s hurtful.

Penny: Oh, Sheldon, you don’t even like it there.
Sheldon: I can consider a place America’s urinal cake and still enjoy the occasional visit.

Leonard: Not this time.
Sheldon: Oh, fine. Then I’ll just hang out with Wolowitz.

Leonard: He’s coming, too.
Sheldon: Well, then Raj and I will…

Leonard: Nope.
Sheldon: Very well. Stuart.

Leonard: Oh, great. Do that.
Sheldon: Ugh. Stuart.

Amy (on Skype): Hi, Sheldon. What’s new?
Sheldon: Our friends are jerks, and I’m mad at all of them.

Amy: I said what’s new, but sure.
Sheldon: Can you believe they planned a trip to Las Vegas and didn’t invite me?

Amy: Did you refuse to apologize and act like they were stupid for being mad?
Sheldon: You know, I liked it better when there was still a little mystery left in our relationship.

Amy: Everyone tried to take care of you, and you were nothing but mean to them.
Sheldon: I can’t believe you’re not on my side. I was on your side when someone stole your car radio.

Amy: Who else’s side could you have been on?
Sheldon: I don’t know. A music-loving hobo with a heart of gold?

Amy: Sheldon, I understand that you’re upset because you feel left out, but I don’t know why we’re even talking about this. Just apologize to them.
Sheldon: Fine, if that’s what it takes to go on their dumb trip.

Amy: Maybe you could try apologizing because you actually feel bad. It’s called empathy. It’s something you could work on.
Sheldon: I have empathy. Watch. Leonard made me soup, and I was mean to him.

Amy: Great. Now try it as if this isn’t your first day as a person.
Sheldon: Fine. Leonard made me soup, and I was mean to him. Hey, I felt a little something. Let me try again. Leonard made me soup, and I was mean to him. I was mean to him. He must have felt terrible. Oh, now I feel terrible. Neat.

Amy: Glad I could help.
Sheldon: Now let me see you feel bad for lying and staying in Detroit longer than you needed to.

Amy: I feel so, so bad.
Sheldon: Hey, we’re both great at this.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Leonard, get ready for an apology. And with the added twist of an M. Night Shyamalan movie, I’m going to mean it.

Leonard: Ah, so like every other M. Night Shyamalan movie I’ve seen, you spoil it in advance.
Sheldon: Hey, if you didn’t know Bruce Willis was dead the whole time, that’s not on me. Okay. Here it comes. You tried to take care of me when I was sick, and I was mean to you. There’s no excuse for that. And I’m truly sorry.

Leonard: Thank you. I appreciate that.
Sheldon: I want you to know that that is sincere. I do feel bad. I’m not just saying it to be included on your trip.

Leonard: Appreciate that, too.
Sheldon: Terrific. Now all that’s left is for you to invite me to come, me to ask are you sure, you to say absolutely, and then me to bring it home with, how could I say no to that face?

Leonard: You’re still not coming.
Sheldon: What? I apologized and I meant it. I know that we don’t play this game very often, but you’re doing it wrong.

Leonard: Sheldon, I accept your apology, but you upset a lot of people while you were sick. I’m not in a position to just say you can come.
Sheldon: Well, all right. What if I apologize to all of them?

Leonard: Fine, if you apologize to everyone, they all say it’s okay, then yes, you can come.
Sheldon: Challenge accepted. Sounds like it’s time for the Sheldon Cooper Apology Tour.

Leonard: Well, I hope it’s as much fun as the Sheldon Cooper Spell-Checks Local Menus Tour.
Sheldon: My goodness, do you remember comes with apsparagus?

Scene: Howard and Berndette’s house.
Sheldon: Howard and Bernadette, you tried to comfort me when I was ill, and I treated you terribly. I’m sorry.

Howard: Wow. I’m impressed.
Sheldon: No, no, no, wait. I’m not done. Allow me to underscore my sentiment with a haunting rendition of Brenda Lee’s I’m Sorry played on the pan flute.

Bernadette: Forgiven, forgiven.
Sheldon: All right, that’s eight hours of practice down the drain. And to memorialise this occasion, here are your commemorative T-shirts.

Scene: The apartment bathroom.
Sheldon: All you did was offer maternal care and affection, and all you received in return was rude and insensitive behavior.

Penny: Can this wait?
Sheldon: I’m afraid it can’t. The trip is tomorrow. And I have more apologies to make.

Penny: Okay, fine, I accept your apology, now get out.
Sheldon: Wonderful. would you mind holding up this shirt while I take a quick…?

Scene: The comic book store.
Sheldon: You brought me my comic books when I wasn’t feeling well. That, that was thoughtful. And I was insensitive. I’m sorry.

Stuart: Thank you, Sheldon. I appreciate that.
Sheldon: And I want you to know that I mean it, you know? This isn’t me just wanting to go on the trip to Las Vegas.

Stuart: What trip to Las Vegas?
Sheldon: The one everyone’s taking this weekend on the party bus.

Stuart: Of course, I wasn’t invited.
Sheldon: That would be my understanding. On a less painful subject, what size T-shirt do you take?

Scene: Raj’s apartment.
Sheldon: Raj, you were being a good friend, and my illness was no excuse for my behaviour. I hope that you can accept my apology.

Raj: Of course I do.
Sheldon: And, Emily, I’m sorry for saying dermatologists aren’t real doctors. And I’m sure you’re tired of hearing that.

Emily: Do you honestly think I hear that a lot?
Sheldon: Well, I would imagine when your job is popping zits and squirting Botox into old lady faces…

Emily: Why are you defending him?
Sheldon: I believe I can answer that. Uh, like me, Raj is demonstrating empathy. Now, why don’t you accept my apology receive your free T-shirt, uh, I hope extra small is okay. For some reason Wolowitz took a medium.

Raj: No, come on, please don’t leave.
Sheldon: Point of clarification, are you still going on the trip? Because if not…

Emily: Don’t worry, you’re good.
Sheldon: I caused that fight, I feel terrible. Wait, I can do that better. I caused that fight. I feel terrible. Yeah, wow, I don’t know which one I like more.

Penny: So, was the fight really bad?
Sheldon: No. As a fight, it was excellent. She used harsh language and slammed the door. Although as I say this, that might not have been what you were asking.

Leonard: You think they’ll still go on the trip?
Sheldon: All I know is after the fight I went to Emily’s to smooth…

Raj: What is wrong with you?
Sheldon: Look at him, caring about what’s wrong with me. That is some top-shelf empathy. Hey, well, we should start a club.

Raj: You went to Emily’s to apologise, and when you left, she was crying.
Sheldon: That is true. Well, I suppose I should apologize again.

Howard: Wait, that’s an option? I didn’t know that was an option.
Sheldon: Well, that is fine, because I’ve decided that I won’t be joining you. I’ve realized that the most genuine way to demonstrate the remorse I feel is to let you have this weekend to yourselves.

Raj: That’s very mature of you.
Sheldon: Well, I’ve been on a little trip myself recently. Not to Sin City but to Sincere City. Where instead of genital warts, the only growth you’ll come back with is personal growth.

Leonard: Mm-hmm. Well, I would like to propose a toast to a well-deserved weekend of…
Sheldon: Aha.

Leonard: What are you doing?
Sheldon: My plan was to jump out at the state line, but one of my nose plugs fell into the toilet.

Penny: If we drop them off at a fire station, they have to take them, no questions asked.
Sheldon: Before you do, please give me one more chance to apologize to Emily.

Raj: Oh, God.
Sheldon: Emily, as I’m sure you know, I’m considered an odd fellow. But what you don’t know is that, while I often say the wrong thing, in my heart I mean well. I think that you are a smart and wonderful woman, you know? And we all think that you can do better than Koothrappali.

Emily: Shh, let him finish.
Sheldon: So, for all the times I’ve offended you and all the times that I’ll offend you in the future, I’m sorry.

Emily: Thank you.
Sheldon: Good. Then I’ll be leaving now.

Emily: Oh, it’s okay, Sheldon. Come with us.
Sheldon: Oh, that’s very kind of you. But I’m sure you’ll all have a better time without me. Let’s go, Stuart.

Stuart: But I want to stay.
Sheldon: Stuart, now.

Leonard: Come on, you pain in the ass.
Sheldon: That’s me. Bye, Stuart.

Scene: Later on the party bus.
Sheldon: Are you relieved that you and Raj were able to patch things up?

Scene: The foyer.
Sheldon: Here’s a fun Postal fact. The inner side of our mailbox is under federal jurisdiction. So, if you broke my right thumb, that’s Pasadena city police. But if you broke my left thumb, that’s the FBI.

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Oh, I got a letter from my Meemaw. Umm. Smell this.

Penny: What is that?
Sheldon: Uh, roses, bengay, and Dr. Scholls’ foot powder.

Leonard: That someone has a name.
Sheldon: Uh, thank you. Oh, Meemaw got a new set of teeth. Oh, but then she found her old ones. Oh, so now the new ones are just gonna be her church teeth.

Penny: I park fine.
Sheldon: Oh, my goodness, she’s coming to visit!

Leonard: Oh, it’ll be nice to finally meet her.
Sheldon: Oh, you are going to love her. She is the kindest, sweetest woman you’ll ever meet. Unless you’re a gopher digging up her vegetable garden. In that case, you can expect to have your head bashed in with a shovel.

Scene: The airport arrivals area.
Sheldon: That’s not her. That’s not her. That’s not her. That’s not her. That’s not her. That’s not her. That’s not her. That’s not her.

Leonard: Really? The old Asian man is not your Meemaw?
Sheldon: And that’s not helpful. You know, I got her an iPhone for Christmas. I’ll see where she is.

Leonard: Oh, that’s nice. Most people her age don’t embrace technology.
Sheldon: Oh, no, she doesn’t even know she has it. No, I had my sister slip it in her bag so that I can track her like a sea turtle.

Leonard: Same as when we lost you at the zoo.
Sheldon: Uh, for the hundredth time, I smelled kettle corn and couldn’t find the cart.

Meemaw: Moon Pie.
Sheldon: Meemaw. I’m so happy to see you.

Meemaw: I’m so happy to see you, too.
Sheldon: Oh. You got even smaller. I love it. Uh, Meemaw, this is Leonard. Leonard, this is my Meemaw.

Meemaw: Thank you.
Sheldon: No. Oh, no. Now you call her Constance. I call her Meemaw. You have your own Meemaw. It’s not my fault she died when you were four.

Meemaw: Is that nice to say to your friend?
Sheldon: It isn’t, Meemaw. Sorry, Leonard.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Are you comfortable?

Meemaw: Very. It’s nice to rest after 800 flights of stairs.
Sheldon: You were so cute, huffin’ and puffin’. There’s Amy. I just know you’re gonna hit it off. You both have the same fashion sense. Hello. Come in, say hi to my Meemaw.

Amy: That’s great. And look at you, sitting in Sheldon’s spot. You know, I don’t even get to sit there.
Sheldon: Yeah. And you never will. Ooh, hey, oh, ask her to do the tissue thing. Do it, ask her.

Meemaw: Of course.
Sheldon: Isn’t that the best? She’s like Grandma Spider-Man.

Meemaw: He’s been saying that since he was little. I still don’t know what it means.
Sheldon: Oh, well, you two sit down and get to know each other. I’ll get your room ready.

Meemaw: Oh, now don’t you go looking through my suitcase for presents.
Sheldon: If I did, would I find any?

Meemaw: Maybe. But you also might find my brassieres and bloomers.
Sheldon: That’s a risk I’m willing to take.

Meemaw: Oh, you better hope so.
Sheldon: A Texas Special cattle and calf car train set with authentic horn and bell. Thank you, Meemaw.

Meemaw: Oh, you’re welcome, Moon Pie.
Sheldon: Amy, why don’t you look excited? Well, you get to watch me play with this.

Meemaw: Oh, no wine for me. Sheldon’s bringing me my whiskey.
Sheldon: Here you go, Meemaw. I made it just how you like, a lot in a glass.

Leonard and Penny: She could just eat him up.
Sheldon: And I call her Meemaw because, well, just, well, look at her.

Amy: Oh, well, you know, now, now that I’m hearing it, it does sound familiar.
Sheldon: How could it? I never told you, and you never bothered to ask.

Amy: Well, now I know.
Sheldon: Yeah.

Amy: Well, maybe I don’t like you either.
Sheldon: Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You have to like each other. Well, we have a 4:30 reservation at Applebee’s.

Amy: I think I should leave.
Sheldon: But why? Other than you two fighting, we’re having such a good time.

Amy: You have an engagement ring?
Sheldon: Yes.

Amy: When did you get an engagement ring?
Sheldon: My mother gave it to me, and I had been thinking about giving it to you, but then we broke up.

Amy: Sheldon, will you please tell your grandmother to stay out of this?
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t think I could do that.

Meemaw: Sheldon, tell this girl that my ring will never be on her finger.
Sheldon: I’m gonna opt out of that one, too.

Amy: Who said I even want to be engaged to him? And if I do, I, I don’t need your hand-me-downs.
Sheldon: All right, all right, look, l, let’s all, let’s remain calm and analyse this situation. Now, I realize that you’ve only known each other for less than a day, but is it possible this crankiness is because your cycles have synced?

Amy: Don’t speak to him like he’s a child.
Sheldon: Thank you. I’m gonna go next door and play with Leonard.

Penny: Yeah, right in there. She ate it and everything.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard and Penny.

Leonard: Hey. What happened? Is Amy gone?
Sheldon: No. They asked me to leave so they could speak privately.

Penny: Uh-oh.
Sheldon: Yeah, I know. It was quite tense. So here’s the million dollar question, uh, who wants to pop over there and get my trains?

Penny: Hi. Sorry. Sheldon would like to say something to you.
Sheldon: No, I wouldn’t.

Leonard: Just get in here.
Sheldon: Hello.

Penny: Go ahead.
Sheldon: Meemaw, look, I’m sorry, but I have to defend my girlfriend to you.

Amy: Oh, Sheldon, thank you.
Sheldon: Oh, great, now you’re gonna get emotional. I always looked up to you and Pop-Pop. I, I know what a challenging man he could be, but I saw you stand by him and-and make him into a better person.

Meemaw: I did.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, that is exactly what I’ve been doing the last five years with this little work in progress.

Amy: I think what Sheldon means to say is we’ve both grown together. Isn’t that right?
Sheldon: Well…

Penny: Say yes.
Sheldon: Yes.

Meemaw: Fine. If you feel so strongly, I won’t stand in your way.
Sheldon: Thank you.

Meemaw: I suppose.
Sheldon: I just gave you my virginity, woman. Cool your jets.

Scene: The cafeteria.
Sheldon: Gentlemen.

Howard: Hello.
Sheldon: If any of you are looking for something to do on Valentine’s Day, Amy and I’ll be streaming our first-ever live episode of Fun With Flags. You’re welcome to join us as we celebrate the timeless love affair between wind and flapping fabric.

Howard: Sorry, Bernie and I are breaking in the new hot tub, if you know what I mean.
Sheldon: Not a clue. Raj?

Leonard: Not really.
Sheldon: You know, uh, once I ordered an Uber by accident. I just got in and went somewhere.

Amy: Okay, and we are live in 22 minutes.
Sheldon: I’m nervous. I hope people will be around to watch even though it’s Valentine’s Day.

Amy: People who are fans of an Internet show about flags? Trust me, they’re around.
Sheldon: Oh, and speaking of Valentine’s Day, I haven’t forgotten about you tonight.

Amy: What do you mean?
Sheldon: Well, you’ve become such an integral part of my life as well as this show, I felt it only right to include your name in the title.

Amy: Oh. That is so sweet.
Sheldon: So from now on, this program will be officially known as Dr. Sheldon Cooper and Dr. Amy Farrah Fowler present Dr. Sheldon’ Cooper’s Fun With Flags.

Amy: Okay, we are live in five, four, three, oh, wait, oh shoot, I already pushed the button. Never mind, we’re live.
Sheldon: Uh, hello and welcome to a special live edition of Dr. Sheldon Cooper…

Amy: Consider tonight’s episode a Valentine’s Day gift for you, our viewers.
Sheldon: It’s also my gift to you. That was clear, right? ‘Cause you’re not getting anything else.

Amy: Since we’re live, you’ll finally be able to reach out to us with your flag thoughts and flag questions.
Sheldon: Allow us to answer a few quick ones that we get all the time. Uh, uh, yes, I really am a doctor. Uh, yes, she really is my girlfriend.

Amy: I, I think it starts with good communication.
Sheldon: You know what, that’s not a flag question. Next caller.

Raj (voice): You really think so?
Sheldon: Yeah, you know what’s not normal? Blubbering about emotions during a flag show. Unless that emotion is excitement over New Zealand changing their flag. Yeah, good luck, you crazy Kiwis, we’re rooting for you.

Raj: No, Sheldon’s right. Emily did say I always talk about my feelings too much.
Sheldon: I suppose that could be a legitimate concern in a relationship. Uh, perhaps even a, a red flag. And speaking of red flags, check out this sexy number from the former Soviet Union. Hubba, hubba.

Barry: Yeah, I’m just sitting here all by myself wondering if I’w ever find someone to share my wife with. Pwefewabwy Asian, 18-24, no fatties.
Sheldon: Please, all comments and questions should be flag-related.

Barry: Aw wight. Is my pole fwag-wewated?
Sheldon: I don’t see why not.

Amy: Look, I know you both feel bad about being alone, but sometimes the best thing you can do is take a little time for yourself, especially when you just got out of a relationship.
Sheldon: Speaking of ending relationships, when British Honduras became Belize, they designed a new flag with a tree on it, and I would like to hang myself from that tree.

Amy: Well, I, I wouldn’t say right away.
Sheldon: And actually, it was three different men.

Raj: Before Emily, I was alone for so long. I just, I don’t know if I can do that again.
Sheldon: Well, you know, here is something that might cheer you up. The flag of the Isle of Man is nothing but three legs sharing a weird pair of underpants, so you think you got problems.

Amy: It really can.
Sheldon: All right. Nothing about this is fun. No one wants to talk about flags, and I haven’t spoken in over ten minutes, so, enjoy your new show, Internet. Dr. Amy Farrah Flower present with.

Amy: No, hold on, Rajesh. You know, you’re not being very sympathetic. You know first hand that breakups are hard.
Sheldon: Fine. If you insist on making me a part of this, yes, I knowledge how painful they can be. However, pain has an evolutionary purpose. It provides information from the environment that, uh, behaviour isn’t good for us.

Amy: I’m just gonna push all the buttons.
Sheldon: Raj, now, I’m sorry you’re suffering. When Amy and I were broken up, I also suffered. And this may sound surprising, but I’m grateful for having gone through it.

Amy: Really?
Sheldon: Yes. I believe our relationship now is stronger than ever.

Amy: So do I.
Sheldon: When, when we were apart, I learned how important you are to me. And I realize that when two people are in love, sometimes they…

Leonard: We are young and fun.
Sheldon: I stand corrected. Fun.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Congratulations on a successful live show.

Leonard: It can be. Confetti fight. Maybe you should take a break. I got this.
Sheldon: Did you know the singular of confetti is confetto?

Amy: Interesting, and when would you use the singular?
Sheldon: I’m glad you asked. Amy, you have a confetto in your nose. No, no, no, no. Other side. There you go.

Leonard: Hey, Raj, I read a couple of guys in your department may have discovered a new planet in our solar system?
Sheldon: Oh, I heard about that. Why didn’t you discover it?

Raj: Because instead of being in the telescope room, I was busy making you guys home made jam for the holidays.
Sheldon: Well, you be sure to let us know when you win the Nobel Prize for boysenberry.

Leonard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Raj: That’s so amazing.
Sheldon: Oh, no.

Leonard: Why oh, no?
Sheldon: Because this changes everything. What about comic book night? Uh, what about playing games together? What about our trips to Disneyland? How can we do those things with a child around?

Leonard: Relax, there’s room for two babies in this group.
Sheldon: Oh, dear lord, Penny’s pregnant, too?

Leonard: You’re the other baby.
Sheldon: Oh, really? Okay, well, would a baby have to shave once every 11 days?

Leonard: Would an adult refuse to eat his graham crackers because one of them was broken?
Sheldon: I guess we’ll call this a draw.

Howard: And then there’s this nose. I mean, what if he looks like me? Or worse, what if she looks like me?
Sheldon: Not to mention the impact on our social circle. Everything’s going to change. Howard won’t be able to come over as much.

Raj: Well, he could bring the baby here.
Sheldon: Oh, but then we’d have to baby-proof the apartment. You know, my sister has one of those toilet locks in her bathroom. I have two doctorates, I still had to go in the sink.

Leonard: Hey, you know what we should do?
Sheldon: All get vasectomies so this doesn’t happen to us?

Howard: Well, look at this. I bet whoever invented tiny umbrellas doesn’t have to worry about money. He can have all the kids he wants.
Sheldon: And can keep a small portion of their heads dry.

Leonard: That’s just research. We’re never gonna make any money from it.
Sheldon: Forget helium. The real superfluid is the fruit punch in this mug. Reminds me of my daddy’s secret don’t tell mama juice.

Leonard: Uh, these are strong, you should slow down.
Sheldon: Oh. I’ll just take one last sip. Ah.

Raj: It’s true. I like my giant iPad and my little iPad almost as much as my regular-sized iPad.
Sheldon: This place is terrific. Why. why have we never been here before?

Leonard: The same reason we don’t do a lot of fun stuff. You.
Sheldon: That’s some smart talk from a guy who can’t even keep his face in focus. Where’s the bathroom?

Raj: Uh, it’s in the corner.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Hey, how you doin’?

Leonard: I really do.
Sheldon: You guys, the bathroom here is amazing. There’s people cooking in it.

Raj: It’s a good sign.
Sheldon: Oh, wait, I found something.

Howard: Damn. What is it?
Sheldon: This video. The baby panda sneezes, and the mama panda gets so scared.

Leonard: Can you focus on what we’re talking about?
Sheldon: All right. Look, now, this may be the rum talking, but as long as the unpinning rate of the vortices is kept within 1.1 and 1.3, the Magnus force issue should be negligible.

Raj: Even drunk, he’s still smarter than all of us.
Sheldon: And stronger. Who wants to see me beat up the bartender?

Leonard: I’d enjoy that.
Sheldon: Nah, she’s a good kid.

Howard: Maybe you’re right.
Sheldon: Of course he’s right. You and I both know how hard it is growing up without a father. That’s why I’m confident you’re gonna be the best dad you can be.

Howard: Thank you, Sheldon.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. And if he has twins, we can do all kinds of neat experiments on them.

Amy: Hi. How are you doing?
Sheldon: Wonderful. I’m being musically encouraged to bust a move. If I knew what that meant, I might just do it.

Penny: So, you gonna get up there later?
Sheldon: A microphone, a room full of inaccurate depictions of Polynesian religion, and a captive audience to hear about it? You bet I am.

Howard: I’d like to dedicate my last song of the evening to my wife, best friend, and now the mother of our child. I love you, Bernie. (Singing) Havin’ my baby, what a lovely way of sayin’ how much you love me. Havin’ my baby, what a lovely way of sayin’ what you’re thinkin’ of me.
Sheldon: You’re kidding. What kind of maniacs have coitus in someone else’s bedroom?

Leonard: I think we’d make amazing parents.
Sheldon: Will you guys keep it down?

Leonard: Way to narrow it down to everything.
Sheldon: What is it?

Amy: Well, your birthday’s coming up, and you’ve never let us celebrate it, and I was hoping maybe this year we could.
Sheldon: Oh, I suppose that’s a discussion we could have.

Leonard: I’ll check his room.
Sheldon: Surprise.

Penny: Oh, my God.
Sheldon: Just one example of how birthdays can be terrible. Now, can we please drop this subject and pick a new one? I suggest how thick can a soup get before it becomes a stew? You know, the answer, it may surprise you.

Penny: Yeah, what is the problem? Is it about getting older?
Sheldon: Please, look at this porcelain skin. I’m like a human sink.

Amy: Can you please just tell me why?
Sheldon: Fine. As you know, I have a twin sister with whom I obviously share a birthday. Every year we’d have a party. No one I invited would ever come, because they didn’t like me.

Amy: I’m sorry.
Sheldon: Oh, that part wasn’t so bad. I didn’t like them, either. But then I’d inevitably spend the whole day being tortured by my sister’s friends.

Penny: Oh, poor thing.
Sheldon: When I was six, they told me Batman was coming to my party. I waited by the door for hours. Closest thing to Batman I saw was when a robin flew into the window.

Amy: You realize none of those things would happen now?
Sheldon: I do, but why do you care if I celebrate my birthday at all?

Penny: Yeah.
Sheldon: Very well. You may celebrate my life by throwing a party with cake, presents and a shower of admiration and love. But then you owe me big-time.

Amy: Okay, so how do you feel about party balloons?
Sheldon: Uh, Mylar balloons, yes. Latex balloons, no. Water balloons, I will jump off the roof and aim for your car.

Penny: All right, what about music?
Sheldon: I enjoy marching bands and Tibetan throat singing.

Bernadette: What kind of cake do you like?
Sheldon: Well, my favourite is chocolate with strawberry frosting, three layers, and if there’s writing on it, make sure it’s not all caps. I don’t need my dessert yelling at me.

Scene: Penny’s apartment.
Sheldon: Is there a reason I had to leave my own apartment?

Amy: Well, I think they just want you to see it for the first time all decorated.
Sheldon: But who’s gonna tell them they’re doing it wrong?

Amy: Well, I’m, I’m sure they’ll ask you to give a speech, and that’s when you just tear ’em a new one. Have to say, you, you do look good in that suit.
Sheldon: Oh. Thank you.

Amy: Maybe later I’ll, uh, get to see you in your birthday suit.
Sheldon: But this is my birthday suit. Are you having a stroke? Because that’s the kind of thing that just ruins a birthday party.

Amy: Oh. Penny says everyone’s there. Are you ready?
Sheldon: I am. Oh. Wait.

Amy: Are you all right?
Sheldon: No, I just, I got a little light-headed.

Amy: Oh, do you need a minute?
Sheldon: No. No, if I can walk past that pet shop with the parrot in the window, I suppose I can do this.

Raj: Come on, Sheldon, say something.
Sheldon: Uh, um, uh, thank you all so much for coming. Beverly. Wil Wheaton. Adam West, for some reason.

Adam: Happy birthday, Sherman.
Sheldon: Thank you. This is all so thoughtful. Excuse me.

Penny: Okay, this is ridiculous. (Knocking) Sheldon? Can I come in?
Sheldon: How do you know I’m not using the facilities?

Penny: Because you e-mail me your bathroom schedule once a week, even though I’ve clicked unsubscribe, like, a thousand times. So, what’s going on?
Sheldon: I don’t know. I looked around the room, and I saw all the faces and the presents, and it, it was just too much.

Penny: I get that. Hey, you want to just bring a few people in here? You know, Wil Wheaton in the bathtub, Batman on the toilet. It’ll be like the weirdest Comic-Con ever.
Sheldon: I know that you worked hard to put this together. I’m sorry I’m ruining it.

Penny: Oh, pl, you’re not ruining it. Look, at some point, Raj will try to get everyone to do the Electric Slide. Now, that will ruin it.
Sheldon: I don’t think I can go back out there.

Penny: That’s fine. You know, I hate that your sister and her friends used to torture you. But what I hate even more is, if I was there, I would have tortured you, too.
Sheldon: Based on this pep talk, I’d say you’re still doing it.

Penny: My point is, there was a time I never would’ve been friends with someone like you, and now you are one of my favourite people. So, if what you need is to spend your birthday in a bathroom, I’m happy to do it with you.
Sheldon: Well, everyone will think I’m weird.

Barry: What are you wooking at me for? I’m a saint. But a sinner in the sack.
Sheldon: Hello, everyone. I, I’d like to apologize for my behaviour. I hope it hasn’t put a damper on the party. So, please, enjoy yourselves. Oh, this is quickly getting out of hand.

General cheers.
Sheldon: Aw, Amy, that was lovely. You know, this is fun. Let’s do more. Someone else say something wonderful about me.

Howard: Sheldon, I don’t think everyone…
Sheldon: Wolowitz, perfect. Everyone listen to Wolowitz.

Howard: Okay, then, uh, Sheldon, we’ve known each other a long time. And it is a pleasure to work with you and call you my friend.
Sheldon: Little generic. Keep thinking. We’ll circle back. Wil Wheaton, go.

General cheers.
Sheldon: That’s how you do it, Wolowitz. Now you see why he’s famous and you’re not.

Raj: And it was Gandhi who said, live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
Sheldon: And it was Sheldon Cooper who said let’s speed this up. A lot of people want to talk.

Leslie: Uh, in the past, I would’ve said something obnoxious, like, happy birthday, dumbass. But I’m not gonna do it. You and I have both grown a lot, and it’s just so nice to see you all again. So, happy birthday, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh. Oh, now, you know I hate change. Say it.

General cheers.
Sheldon: Thank you, Bernadette. That was perfect.

Leonard: Sheldon, we’ve been together so long, it’s hard to remember a time you weren’t in my life. And believe me, I try. You make me laugh. You make me a better scientist. You make me crazy. You’re more than just my roommate, you’re my brother.
Sheldon: Thank you.

General cheers.
Sheldon: Thank you. That, that was wonderful.

Stephen Hawking (on Skype): Hello, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Professor Hawking.

Stephen: Happy birthday to you.
Sheldon: Thank you so much. I can’t believe you’re…

Stephen: Happy birthday to you.
Sheldon: Oh, you’re singing. Well, I’m sorry.

Penny: Okay, while they get the cake, Sheldon, I just want to say, I hope you didn’t think you were gonna get through tonight without a hug.
Sheldon: You know, I used to hate these hugs. Now they’re just extremely irritating.

Howard: Okay, I gotta ask, why are you wearing a bow tie?
Sheldon: I’ve never applied for a patent before. I wanted to make a good impression.

Howard: Is the impression that your first name is Pee-Wee?
Sheldon: Yeah, well, you’re an engineer. End of joke, burn.

Attorney: So, I’ve reviewed your paperwork, and it seems like we’ve got everything we need to file a patent for your infinite persistence gyroscope.
Sheldon: That’s great.

Attorney: That’s nice, but I think ours might be a bit more thorough.
Sheldon: Get a load of this guy.

Howard: Seventy-five percent?
Sheldon: That’s outrageous. This is our idea based on our research. How can you possibly justify owning a majority share?

Attorney: It’s university policy.
Sheldon: I know when I’m beat.

Attorney: Well, sometimes they give you a plaque.
Sheldon: Well, that’s not fair. We should all get plaques.

Leonard: Thank you for your time.
Sheldon: Couple of questions about the plaque.

Howard: We can’t. It says on their Web site, as long as we work there, they have a controlling ownership of anything we come up with.
Sheldon: Great, so they own my idea for a T-shirt that says Dumb as a Bag of Geologists.

Leonard: Or, if we ended up making money from this, Sheldon and I could split our shares with you.
Sheldon: To be clear, Leonard is referring to the gyroscope, not the T-shirt and mugs. Oh, now they own the mugs.

Leonard: Of course, we can split any profits three ways.
Sheldon: I’m fine with that.

Howard: Okay, great.
Sheldon: It sounds like a, uh, contract might be in order.

Leonard: Sure, we could write something up.
Sheldon: But which one of us should be the party who…

Howard: You can do it, Sheldon.
Sheldon: So stipulated.

Howard: This contract looks good to me.
Sheldon: I’ll say it looks good. It’s in my proprietary font, Shelvetica.

Penny: Sheldon, did you draft the contract?
Sheldon: You bet I did.

Bernadette: So, you’re just gonna sign this without having a lawyer look at it?
Sheldon: Excuse me. I’ve been drafting contracts since kindergarten. Didn’t need a lawyer to get me out of finger painting. Don’t need one now.

Howard: Excuse us.
Sheldon: Hey, Leonard.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: If she doesn’t think that we should apply for this patent, she’s being patently absurd.

Leonard: Good one.
Sheldon: Okay, you got it. See, I was afraid it was a thinker.

Amy: I hope everything’s okay.
Sheldon: I wonder what they’re talking about.

Howard: Hey.
Sheldon: Hello.

Howard: Yeah. But, um, we were talking, and I’m a little concerned about the three of us forming a partnership.
Sheldon: Are you suggesting a limited liability corporation? ‘Cause I did not L-L-see that coming.

Howard: Sheldon, my concern is not with the money or anything. It’s, it’s with how you treat me.
Sheldon: Well, I believe I’m treating you generously. That’s why I’ve stipulated in the contract that your contributions to our invention are as valuable as my own.

Bernadette: Are you saying that his contributions aren’t as valuable as yours?
Sheldon: No, I am not saying that, because I kept saying that this morning and Leonard said stop saying that.

Bernadette: How would you enforce it?
Sheldon: Oh, please. Any contract I sign is enforced by my own personal code of ethics.

Amy: And his obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Sheldon: Yeah, that, too. And scoot over. Part of your shadow’s on my spot.

Howard: I’m on board.
Sheldon: I’ll add it right now. Oh, baby, it’s addendum time.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: The, the revisions I made start on page four.

Leonard: Hang on. Maybe there should be a no insult clause about me, too.
Sheldon: Do you still like cilantro?

Leonard: Yeah.
Sheldon: You’re tying my hands here.

Howard: That’s very generous, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Oh, I’ve always valued education over money. And the very fact that you needed a written guarantee of respect made me realize how dismissive I’ve been of your contributions.

Howard: I appreciate that.
Sheldon: And I just hope that this scholarship can rescue your child from the subpar education and menial life of an engineer.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: What? I didn’t sign it yet.

Amy (on Skype): I didn’t understand your e-mail.
Sheldon: Uh, can you repeat that? You’re breaking up.

Amy: I didn’t understand your e-mail.
Sheldon: Ah. Yeah, I had to get a little creative because the S, R and M keys on my laptop stopped working.

Amy: Deaw Aby, could you pleathe dwive be to the twain thtow thubtibe tobowow?
Sheldon: So, is that a yes?

Amy: Sheldon, why don’t you get a new computer? You know that one’s out-of-date.
Sheldon: Oh, but I like this computer.

Amy: The video is failing, and the sound is cutting out.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, I didn’t get that.

Amy: The video is failing, and the sound is cutting out.
Sheldon: The sound is cutting out. I can’t read that. The video is failing.

Amy: Get a new computer.
Sheldon: What?

Amy: Get a new computer.
Sheldon: What? (Answering phone) Hello?

Amy: I got here as quickly as I could.
Sheldon: You’re too late.

Amy: Sheldon, this is silly.
Sheldon: You got emotional when that lab monkey died.

Amy: That lab monkey told me he loved me in sign language.
Sheldon: Great. Now I’m gonna have that song in my head all day.

Amy: Look, I’m, I’m sorry for your loss, but I think I have something that might make you feel better. I got you a new computer.
Sheldon: How could you do that?

Amy: Do what?
Sheldon: Choosing a new laptop Is an incredibly personal ritual. You have taken away weeks of agonizing thought, tedious research, sleepless nights filled with indecision. I, haven’t I lost enough today?

Amy: Well, the guy at the store said this one is great.
Sheldon: Oh, oh, the guy. Oh, pardon me. I didn’t realize you’d spoken to the guy. Yeah, tell me, did the guy choose one with a 4K display and a Thunderbolt port?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Yeah? Did the guy make sure that this has a one terabyte solid-state drive?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Yeah? Oh, well, was this guy Rick from Computer Solutions on Colorado?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Yeah, well, he does know his stuff.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I suppose I should set this up. Or would you like to rob me of that, too?

Amy: Knock it off or I’ll start making W-H sounds for words that just have a W.
Sheldon: You wouldn’t.

Amy: Whatch me.
Sheldon: Fine. I’m sorry. Thank you for the thoughtful gift. I really do appreciate it. As you know, I had become attached to my old laptop. But I’m sure, in time, that this one will… Jeepers creepers, that started up fast.

Amy: I thought you might like it.
Sheldon: Look at the 4K resolution. Next time we Skype, I’m gonna count all those nostril hairs.

Amy: Or you could just look into my eyes.
Sheldon: But you only have two eyes. You got a lot of nostril hairs.

Amy: Well, you know, as long as you’re happy.
Sheldon: Oh. I am.

Amy: And Rick said you could bring in your old one to recycle it.
Sheldon: Oh. Uh, no, no, no, thank you.

Amy: Oh, but he said you can get store credit.
Sheldon: Well, no, I just, I, I don’t want to recycle it. And I don’t want store credit.

Amy: But why wouldn’t…
Sheldon: Can we please change the subject?

Amy: Okay. How ’bout we change it to why you’re being weird about this?
Sheldon: I’m not being weird. I, it’s hard to explain.

Amy: Sheldon, just tell me.
Sheldon: It might be easier to show you.

Amy: Okay.
Sheldon: We’d have to take your car.

Amy: All right.
Sheldon: And I’m gonna need you to sign a non-disclosure agreement.

Amy: Will you please tell me where we’re going?
Sheldon: Sorry, you’re on a need-to-know basis.

Amy: I’m driving the car. I need to know.
Sheldon: Right.

Amy: So where are we going?
Sheldon: No, I meant turn right, and you missed it. Maybe you do need to know.

Amy: Why do you have a storage unit?
Sheldon: Just wait.

Amy: How long have you had it?
Sheldon: Just wait.

Amy: Do you want me to hold that computer?
Sheldon: Just wait. You know what? Actually, yes, thank you. Welcome to my Fortress of Shame.

Amy: I’m sorry. What, what am I looking at?
Sheldon: It’s basically everything I’ve ever owned. Um, every book, every tee shirt, every piece of broken electronics. Just all of it.

Amy: All of it?
Sheldon: I have a Ziploc bag filled with all my old Ziploc bags.

Scene: The storage unit.
Sheldon: In here is every clock radio I’ve ever owned. Calculators, VHS tapes. Yeah. Oh. Sporting equipment.

Amy: You have sporting equipment?
Sheldon: Well, oh, it’s just a, it’s a, a golf ball that my brother threw at my head. You can still feel the dent. It’s right next to the hockey puck dent.

Amy: Okay, why do you have a bin of pine cones?
Sheldon: I used to collect them as a child. The spiral of scales open in the Fibonacci sequence. A fact that, when you tell your brother, gets a golf ball thrown at your head.

Amy: So, why do you feel you need to save these things?
Sheldon: I’d like to say it’s nostalgia, but every time I think of throwing anything away, my ears start to ring, and I get butterflies in my stomach. And then it feels like the butterflies get eaten by rats, and then the, the rats get eaten by…

Amy: Okay. I get it. I get it.
Sheldon: It ends with dinosaurs. I’m sorry if you think less of me.

Amy: I don’t.
Sheldon: Really? ‘Cause every time I come in here, I think less of me.

Amy: Why?
Sheldon: Because I’m a fraud. No. I purport to be a man of the mind. I’ve been such a, a vocal champion of the singularity, but how can I leave my body behind and become one with the internet when I’ve never even thrown a toothbrush away?

Amy: It’s okay, Sheldon. You know, I’ve saved a lot of weird things, too.
Sheldon: Like what?

Amy: Well, um, did you know I have a microscope slide with a little bit of tissue from the first brain I ever dissected?
Sheldon: I have an old teddy bear I secretly wiped my nose on for years.

Amy: So, no one else knows about this?
Sheldon: Only you.

Amy: Thank you for trusting me.
Sheldon: What good is having a girlfriend if you can’t unload your psychological sewage on her?

Amy: That’s me, your emotional outhouse. You know, if you ever decide you want to do something about this, I’m, I’m here for you.
Sheldon: Thank you. I wouldn’t even know how to begin.

Amy: Baby steps, I guess.
Sheldon: I suppose I could try getting rid of the golf ball.

Amy: Oh. Okay.
Sheldon: I will always have the dent to remember it by.

Amy: You did it. Do you feel okay?
Sheldon: Actually, yes. I do.

Amy: Well, I’m proud of you.
Sheldon: Thanks.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: I’m glad I told you about the storage unit.

Amy: Well, I feel closer to you now.
Sheldon: Oh, I feel closer to you, too. You know, it’s still a couple of hours until my bedtime.

Scene: The same, shortly afterwards.
Sheldon: You look amazing. I mean, this resolution is remarkable.

Amy (on Skype): I really had to go home for this?
Sheldon: Yes, but it’s like you’re right here in the room.

Amy: And yet, I’m not.
Sheldon: But I feel like I could reach out and touch you.

Amy: And yet, you can’t.
Sheldon: I know.

Scene: The apartment (initially inside a virtual reality device)
Sheldon: It’s nice to get back to nature. Why don’t I do this more often? What a beautiful forest. Hello, little butterfly. What’s your Na-oh!

Leonard: Whatcha doing?
Sheldon: I was enjoying some virtual reality, until you ruined it with your actual face.

Penny: What am I smelling?
Sheldon: Oh, it’s car air freshener. I was simulating the smell of the forest.

Penny: That’s not what the forest smells like.
Sheldon: Well, how would I know?

Leonard: Why are you pretending to be outdoors? You hate it.
Sheldon: Hmm? Oh. Amy showed me a compelling study that demonstrated the cognitive benefit of spending time in the wilderness.

Leonard: Buddy, I am ready to drive you into the wilderness any time you want and leave you there.
Sheldon: Well, make your jokes, but some of the participants who spent four days in the woods away from all technology reported a fifty percent gain in reasoning skills upon their return.

Penny: Okay, if that’s true, why aren’t there more genius squirrels?
Sheldon: You may need this more than I do.

Amy: Here’s your tea.
Sheldon: Oh. Do not sneak up on a guy when he’s sitting on a log.

Amy: You know, if you really want to be in nature, why don’t we rent a cabin?
Sheldon: Look, I’m sorry, when did you even get here? I…

Amy: We could all go for the weekend. It’ll be fun.
Sheldon: Excuse me. Here, look up fun, get back to me.

Amy: Come on, Sheldon, let’s go with them.
Sheldon: I hardly think so. You be sure and say hello to all the mosquitoes, bees, bears, snakes, possums, poison oak, oh, and last, but not least, teenagers with guitars.

Amy: You know, if that study’s real, Leonard might come back smarter than you.
Sheldon: Are you trying to manipulate me?

Amy: Yes.
Sheldon: Well done, it worked, we’re going.

Penny: Well, we’ll be in the woods.
Sheldon: I’m ready to go.

Penny: Nice hat, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Thanks.

Leonard: I know. Did you see they still have a video rental place? it’s like Colonial Williamsburg.
Sheldon: Well, cell service is down to one bar, so if anyone needs medical attention or to tell a stranger their political views are stupid, now’s the time.

Amy: Have you ever been off the grid before?
Sheldon: Once. The battery ran out on my phone. I had to wait for my iPad to turn on.

Penny: Well, she is taking me to an Indigo Girls concert, so hold that thought.
Sheldon: Okay. Well, shall we check each other for ticks?

Amy: Sheldon, all we did was walk in from the car.
Sheldon: Oh. Well, suit yourself. Who wants to check me?

Leonard: And there goes our hike.
Sheldon: Oh, not our hike, now we have to stay safe and warm.

Leonard: They have some board games.
Sheldon: Eh, most of the Jenga pieces are missing and the Scrabble only has seven tiles, so unless you want to build an unimpressive structure with the word shnerpf next to it, move on.

Leonard: I don’t think I’ve lit a real fire before.
Sheldon: Ah, it’s basic thermodynamics. I’m sure we can figure that out.

Leonard: I could stack the logs conically to facilitate airflow.
Sheldon: That would maximize oxygen for optimal combustion.

Penny: Hey, you guys want to play a drinking game?
Sheldon: Oh, well now, we’ll never win. You always play the drinking game.

Leonard: I’ve never played that before.
Sheldon: Hey, now, wait. Have we started? Do I drink? What is happening?

Leonard: Okay, I’ll go. Never have I ever been arrested.
Sheldon: So I drink.

Amy: No, it’s only if you’ve done it.
Sheldon: Got it.

Amy: I can’t believe you’ve been arrested.
Sheldon: I can’t believe Penny hasn’t.

Penny: Sheldon, what did you do?
Sheldon: Well, I’m not proud of it, but I jaywalked.

Amy: I’m surprised you would do that.
Sheldon: No, I crossed in the middle of the street. And normally, I wouldn’t, but I saw an aggressive-looking Girl Scout, and it was the heart of cookie season. Anyway, there was a police officer, and he witnessed the whole thing.

Penny: What, he arrested you for that?
Sheldon: No, he didn’t do anything. So I said, you just saw me jaywalk, why aren’t you doing your job? You know? May, maybe I should arrest you for, for impersonating a police officer.

Penny: And then you got arrested.
Sheldon: Oh, and how.

Amy: Okay. My turn. Um, never have I ever completely rocked my girlfriend’s world in bed.
Sheldon: Amy.

Leonard: That’s right.
Sheldon: All right, my turn. Mm. Oh, I know. Never have I ever kept a secret bank account, because I think my wife can’t handle money. Did I win? I feel like I won.

Leonard: What, you mean, like, your massive credit card debt?
Sheldon: I’m calling it. I won.

Scene: The cabin. 
Sheldon: Oh, never have I ever drunk milk past its expiration date.

Amy: Never have I ever cancelled a dentist appointment.
Sheldon: Oh, uh, never have I ever put my foot in the ocean.

Amy: Never have I ever honked if I liked anything.
Sheldon: Oh, uh, never have I ever thrown, caught or touched a Frisbee.

Amy: Never have I ever put salt on my food without trying it first.
Sheldon: Oh. Never have I ever pushed all the buttons in an elevator.

Scene: The comic book store. 
Sheldon: I have a question about Batman. Batman is a man who dresses up like a bat. Man-bat is a part man, part bat hybrid. Now, if Man-Bat dressed up as a man to fight crime, would he be Man-Batman?

Howard: But Batman is a man. You’re talking about a man who would have the powers of a man. That’s just Man-Man.
Sheldon: Well, isn’t Man-Man just Man?

Howard: So does that answer your question?
Sheldon: Oh, I haven’t asked it yet.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: What, why did you get a party sub?

Leonard: People are coming over, it looked fun.
Sheldon: Well, we’re only watching Game of Thrones. A party sub implies it’s a party.

Leonard: Your attendance implies it’s not.
Sheldon: I like a party as much as the next man, as long as the next man doesn’t like a party. Oh, by the way, don’t forget, tomorrow is our quarterly roommate agreement meeting.

Leonard: Oh, Sheldon, we don’t need a meeting every three months.
Sheldon: Hmm? Well, it sounds like the kind of thing one would bring up at a quarterly roommate agreement meeting. Lucky for you it’s tomorrow.

Leonard: Oh, you know what? I’m not going.
Sheldon: Well, you have to go. It’s Penny’s first time leading the Pledge of Allegiance.

Leonard: This meeting is a waste of time. Whether we make the switch from Post Raisin Bran to Kellogg’s Raisin Bran should not require parliamentary procedure.
Sheldon: You realize one of them has sugar on the raisins.

Leonard: You’re the only one who eats them.
Sheldon: And yet you get to weigh in. Democracy, it’s pretty cool, isn’t it?

Leonard: I’m not going, you can’t make me.
Sheldon: Well, we’ll just see about that.

Penny: What is the problem?
Sheldon: He says he’s not coming to the roommate agreement meeting tomorrow.

Leonard: You have fun. I will not be attending.
Sheldon: Oh, fine. We don’t have to have a roommate agreement meeting if you don’t want to.

Leonard: Thank you.
Sheldon: Of course, it will require a vote. Unfortunately, my official gavel is in my bedroom, but luckily, I have my travel gavel.

Leonard: You’re being ridiculous.
Sheldon: There’s a motion on the floor, I’m ridiculous. Do we have a second? Hmm? Hmm? There is no second. The motion is denied. Next time, make sure you have the votes first. That was embarrassing.

Penny: Well, I will still come to your meeting.
Sheldon: Well, I should hope so. Tomorrow’s picture day.

Penny: Because it’s important to him, and when we signed the roommate agreement, we made a deal.
Sheldon: You keep talking like that, you’re gonna make colour guard.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Are you up-to-date on Game of Thrones?

Penny: Mm, I think so. Dragons, snow zombies, and all the hot guys are dead.
Sheldon: Oh, I don’t know. Theon Greyjoy looks pretty good for a guy who had his genitals cut off.

Leonard: Yeah, that’s right.
Sheldon: Tonight I’ll be watching a show rated M.A., and that stands for mature audiences, buster.

Leonard: And I’d think you’d understand why I’m annoyed.
Sheldon: All this could be avoided if you’d just come to the meeting.

Leonard: I don’t want to.
Sheldon: Oh, it’s just a meeting. One simple meeting.

Leonard: Stop saying meeting.
Sheldon: Meeting, meeting, bo-beeting, banana-fana, fo-feeting, fee-fi mo-meeting.

Amy: I brought my famous spinach dip.
Sheldon: Yeah, Amy, just one second. Meeting.

Penny: Oh, he’s all bent out of shape about having a roommate agreement meeting.
Sheldon: Apparently, perfect attendance isn’t cool any more.

Amy: Well, I get why he’s annoyed.
Sheldon: Well, then you don’t understand what’s happening. See, Leonard refused to participate in a mandatory quarterly roommate agreement meeting. This is what a generation raised on Bart Simpson looks like.

Leonard: You love The Simpsons.
Sheldon: I love Lisa Simpson.

Amy: Well, I know how he feels. I never enjoyed our relationship agreement meetings.
Sheldon: Wait. You were pretending?

Amy: Sorry.
Sheldon: No. I don’t believe you. I could tell.

Amy: Oh, Sheldon, I never thought re-filing a matter in a standing subcommittee could be so fascinating.
Sheldon: Hmm, what do you think?

Penny: Come on, Sheldon, we’ll watch Game of Thrones over here.
Sheldon: Gladly.

Leonard: Oh, good, go. You know, it’ll be nice to watch an episode without someone saying, I read the books, don’t get too fond of this character.
Sheldon: It’s not always because they die. In one case, it’s because they’ve become involved with underground tree people from the dawn of time. Yeah, but I won’t say who it is. It’s Brann.

Raj: Wait, did Amy make her spinach dip?
Sheldon: She did.

Stuart: Thanks. This thing kept getting caught in the chain of my bike.
Sheldon: Well, I’ll catch you up. Uh, Penny is angry at Leonard, Leonard’s angry at me and Penny, I’m angry at Leonard and Amy, Raj is angry at Howard, and I’m angry at George R.R. Martin ’cause there are no new books for me to spoil for Leonard.

Leonard: It just said Italian sub. I had no idea mortadella has pistachios in it.
Sheldon: Interesting fact, in Italian, the morta in mortadella means death.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: I didn’t say fun fact. I’m not a monster.

Bernadette: He’s gonna be okay.
Sheldon: Now it’s a fun fact.

Raj: Okay. But you using Sheldon to do your dirty work is like when Cersei used the King’s Guard to do her bidding.
Sheldon: Cersei uses her body to manipulate men. Penny just takes me to The LEGO Store.

Leonard: That’s true.
Sheldon: Fair enough.

Amy: That was scary.
Sheldon: Well, the important thing is I said that big sandwich would ruin everything, and I was right.

Stuart: How come your head has your face on it?
Sheldon: They don’t wear bicycle helmets in Game of Thrones. You’re thematically inaccurate, but I applaud your commitment to safety.

Scene: Leonard’s bedroom.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard. (Knock, knock, knock) Leonard.

Leonard: What?
Sheldon: I never got to ask my question about Batman.

Leonard: What is it?
Sheldon: If Batman were bitten by a radioactive Man-Bat, and then fought crime disguised as Man-Bat, would he be Man-Bat-Man-Bat-Man or simply Man-Bat-Man-Bat-Batman?

Penny: Is he still wearing the Batman suit under the Man-Bat suit?
Sheldon: I’ll be back.

Howard: ‘Cause we’re not in it for the stuff. We’re in it for the groupies.
Sheldon: Personally, I find the notion of external rewards demeaning. I pursue science for the intrinsic joy of discovery.

Amy: But you always say that you want to win a Nobel Prize.
Sheldon: I also say don’t contradict me in front of my friends, but that you don’t remember.

Amy: Well, it sounds like a nice night. We should go.
Sheldon: Wine again? Yeah, no, thank you. I like my grapes the old-fashioned way, in a juice box.

Amy: Well, I’m going. You couldn’t stop me from getting a massage at the mall, and you’re not stopping me now.
Sheldon: I shouldn’t have to see my girlfriend get groped in public by another man.

Penny: Yeah, give her a break from, well, come on.
Sheldon: Well, Bernadette, looks like Saturday night, it’s you and me.

Bernadette: Me? How? Why?
Sheldon: Well, it makes perfect sense. Because you’re an expectant mother, you can’t drink alcohol. I don’t like to. You can’t have sushi. I don’t like to. You can’t go in hot tubs. I consider them vats of sweaty people soup.

Bernadette: Gee, Sheldon, I don’t know.
Sheldon: Oh, come on. Roller coasters, caffeine, runny eggs, I’ve been avoiding these things all my life. And now, because you’re pregnant, you have to.

Bernadette: I guess we could give it a try.
Sheldon: Well, little lady, you’ve heard of party hearty, get ready to party hardly.

Raj: Oh, that’s great. I’ve been wanting her to meet you guys, too, so this seems like the perfect opportunity.
Sheldon: Oh, but I won’t be there.

Raj: They know that we’re not exclusive, and we just don’t ask too many questions.
Sheldon: You know, it’s like how I play Warlords of Ka’a with you and Elder Sign with Frank and Alicia.

Leonard: Who’s Frank and Alicia?
Sheldon: You, you and I spend a lot of time together. Can there be a little mystery between us?

Howard: Okay. Everything’s hooked up. We’re ready.
Sheldon: I am going to record this for posterity.

Leonard: All right, here goes nothing.
Sheldon: Here goes nothing? This is the initial test of our prototype. Can we give it a little more gravitas?

Leonard: Fine. Preliminary trial of the infinite persistence gyroscopic navigational system, phase one commencing.
Sheldon: Eh, maybe it’s your voice. I’m gonna see if I can get James Earl Jones to do it in post.

Penny: Hey, are you still hanging out with Bernadette tonight?
Sheldon: Yes. And we’re going to prove that we don’t need alcohol to enjoy ourselves.

Penny: Oh, good for you.
Sheldon: Or caffeine, tobacco, sushi, soft cheese, processed meats and jacuzzis, which can all be harmful to an unborn baby.

Penny: No honey baked ham in a hot tub, got it.
Sheldon: Oh, no bubble baths either. They can increase the risk of a urinary tract infection.

Leonard: Okay, have fun.
Sheldon: Oh, and no swordfish, king mackerel, shark or tilefish, which are all high in mercury.

Leonard: We’re leaving now!
Sheldon: Oh, and no contact with guinea pigs or hamsters or their droppings, uh, no-no cat litter boxes, no paint fumes.

Penny: Okay, we’re leaving, love you, bye.
Sheldon: Boy, do I love restrictions.

Bernadette: I brought sparkling cider.
Sheldon: Oh, the bubbles tickle my nose. I’ll just open this now so it can get nice and flat before we drink it.

Bernadette: So what do you want to do tonight?
Sheldon: Oh, I have quite the evening planned. Our foetus-friendly festival of fun begins with an in-depth look at the world of model trains, and then we’ll kick things up a notch and explore all the different ways that you can make toast.

Bernadette: There’s more than one?
Sheldon: You’ve heard of French toast?

Bernadette: Yeah.
Sheldon: Cinnamon toast?

Bernadette: Yeah.
Sheldon: Melba toast?

Bernadette: Yeah.
Sheldon: You get where I’m going here?

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: H-O gauge trains are 1/87th scale. N gauge are 1/160th scale. And that brings us to Z gauge, at a, you could easily swallow it, don’t ask how I know, 1 to 220.

Bernadette: I’m sorry, I have to ask.
Sheldon: When I was five, I ingested a Z gauge locomotive. I spent the next three days saying, I think I can pass it, I think I can pass it, I think I can pass it.

Bernadette: What is it about trains that you like so much?
Sheldon: What an interesting question. When I was a child, life was confusing and chaotic for me, and trains represented order. I could line them up, categorize them, control them. I guess you could say that they gave me a sense of calm in a world that didn’t.

Bernadette: That’s lovely, Sheldon.
Sheldon: Well, other than when they’re chugging through your bowels, these things are magic.

Scene: The apartment. 
Sheldon: And last but not least, this is one that I like to call Star Wars Toast because it has a light side and a dark side. All righty, it’s time for Dungeons & Dragons.

Bernadette: Dungeons & Dragons? That sounds about right.
Sheldon: You’re gonna enjoy this. I designed it especially for you.

Bernadette: Okay, but just for a little bit.
Sheldon: Oh, I have a feeling that once you start, you’re not gonna want to or be allowed to stop.

Bernadette: All right.
Sheldon: Ready?

Bernadette: You bet.
Sheldon: Your name is Bernatrix. You are a warrior queen. You’re strong, beautiful and tall.

Bernadette: Oh. I like the idea of being tall.
Sheldon: I think you’re gonna like a lot of things I have in store. For example, in this world, only the men get pregnant, so your husband is home trying not to pee when he laughs.

Bernadette: This is getting fun. What’s next?
Sheldon: You’re parched and weary from battle. You stand in front of a tavern that serves the coldest, most delicious ale in all the realm.

Bernadette: Oh, I haven’t had a drink in months.
Sheldon: What do you do?

Bernadette: I storm in, slam my sword down, and say, barkeep, bring me the strongest ale you have and serve it in the skull of a goblin.
Sheldon: He wants to see I.D.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: The Hell Prawn lunges out of the hot spring. You block it with your shield. Do you attack?

Bernadette: Does it have eyes?
Sheldon: Three giant red ones and they never blink. It’s unsettling.

Bernadette: I stab it in the middle eye.
Sheldon: Good choice. Critical hit. Your sword goes through its eye into its tiny brain. With its final dying gasp, it says, you have reduced me to a pile of sushi. Enjoy me with this packet of soy sauce. It’s low sodium. Aaaah.

Bernadette: Okay, I guess I should eat the Hell Prawn.
Sheldon: Using your sword, you prepare a beautiful sushi dinner. You slip into the hot spring and enjoy the warm water on your aching joints. As you happily close your eyes, you recall the incredible evening you’ve had and notice that your feet and ankles are smaller than they’ve ever been. The end.

Bernadette: Wow, this night turned out to be so much more fun than I thought.
Sheldon: Oh, the fun doesn’t stop. You’re still going home with a goodie bag full of toast.

Bernadette: Thank you for this. You know, ever since people found out I’m having a baby, I feel like I became Pregnant Bernadette. It was nice to take a little break tonight.
Sheldon: I can understand that. From the moment people realized I was a genius, I’ve been Sheldon the Genius. Although I’ve never really wanted a break from that, so I suppose I don’t understand. Which is ironic ’cause, you know, genius.

Bernadette: Well, thanks again.
Sheldon: You’re welcome. And any time you need a break from being Bernadette the Pregnant, Bernatrix the Warrior Queen is here waiting.

Bernadette: I might just take you up on that.
Sheldon: Well, mind you now, that offer’s only good until the third trimester. I can’t risk getting amniotic fluid on my spot.

Leonard: Morning.
Sheldon: Morning.

Leonard: Ugh. Too much wine.
Sheldon: Oh, I overdid it myself last night. Hair of the dog.

Leonard: Hey, did you ever think about the military applications for the guidance system?
Sheldon: Of course.

Leonard: Does it bother you?
Sheldon: No, it did at first, but then I talked it through with Frank and Alicia, and they really helped put things into perspective.

Leonard: Who are these people?
Sheldon: Leonard, friends are like toilet paper. It’s good to have extras under the sink.

Penny: Helium.
Sheldon: Yes.

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: Taylor Swift.

Penny: Yes. Pi.
Sheldon: Yes. Kardashian.

Penny: More specific.
Sheldon: Khloe?

Penny: Yes.
Sheldon: See, I remembered because if it looks like Kim it’s Kim, if it looks kind of like Kim it’s Kourtney, and if it looks nothing like Kim it’s Khloe.

Leonard: What are you guys doing?
Sheldon: Oh, well, we decided to use our breakfast time to expand our respective knowledge bases.

Leonard: Hmm, atom of hydrogen, Adam of Maroon 5, mic drop.
Sheldon: I’m sorry, who is Mike Drop?

Leonard: Hey, Penny, um, since you’re already gonna be at the airport, do I need to go?
Sheldon: Why don’t you want to get your mother from the airport?

Leonard: Well, I can do without the 40-minute car ride where she criticizes every aspect of my life.
Sheldon: She can cover it in a car ride? I could do 40 minutes on your posture alone.

Leonard: That is very mature of you, so I’m gonna go ahead and say, suckah.
Sheldon: All right, back to learning.

Penny: Okay.
Sheldon: Oh, easy, Bill Nye the Science Guy.

Penny: Or as I know him?
Sheldon: Creepy old dude from Dancing with the Stars.

Raj: Did you guys see there’s an Avengers screening? Joss Whedon’s gonna show some deleted scenes and do a question and answer session.
Sheldon: Oh, well, I have a few questions for him about the last Avengers movie, and a whole lot of answers.

Leonard: Penny’s busy with my mother, so I’m in.
Sheldon: Oh, bad news. Amy’s making me go shopping with her later, so looks like none of us can go.

Raj: Uh, I’d say by three.
Sheldon: You’re really going without me?

Leonard: It’s not a big deal. Go shopping with Amy, and we’ll save a spot in line for you.
Sheldon: You don’t have the authority to save places in the line. If I do that, I’ll be cutting.

Leonard: People do it all the time.
Sheldon: You know the golden rule of line etiquette. No cuts, no buts, no coconuts.

Howard: We’ve waited in a lot of lines together, haven’t we?
Sheldon: Remember when we camped out for the Doctor Who panel at Comic-Con?

Leonard: Waking up, wondering which one of those fans stole our wallets.
Sheldon: Stuart, what are you doing here?

Stuart: Sheldon, you are the most inconsiderate person I have ever met in my entire life. Where do you get off sending me to shop with your girlfriend?
Sheldon: I don’t understand. You were happy to do this when I hired you. Why, why are you upset with me now?

Stuart: Oh, I’m not upset with you, but Amy’s pretty bent out of shape, so she hired me to let you have it.
Sheldon: Well, I suppose turnabout is fair play.

Stuart: Hey.
Sheldon: Hey. Is everything smoothed out with Amy?

Stuart: Uh, no, she’s still pretty mad.
Sheldon: Did you make the apology as sincere as I would have?

Stuart: I said, Sheldon says he’s sorry.
Sheldon: Oh, well, that’s laying it on a little thick.

Leonard: You think it’s time you apologize to her yourself?
Sheldon: I suppose so. But if I get out of the line, I’ll lose my spot.

Stuart: I’m happy to hold your place till you get back.
Sheldon: You would do that?

Stuart: Consider it my way of getting more of your money.
Sheldon: You’re a good man.

Penny: Um, it has seat warmers.
Sheldon: (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy. (Knock, knock, knock) Amy.

Amy: Come in.
Sheldon: Hello, everyone. Oh, Beverly, good to see you. I’d love to chat, but there’s a line that could start moving any minute, so let’s do this. Amy? A proper apology requires three steps. Step one, an admission of wrongdoing. Amy, I was wrong. Step two, a promise never to repeat said action. Amy, that action will never be repeated, and that’s a promise. Step three, an earnest request for forgiveness. Amy, I hope you can forgive me. And I hope you do it right now, ’cause there’s an Uber waiting downstairs, and I don’t want to repeat this apology nonsense with my driver Ganesh.

Amy: Fine.
Sheldon: Oh, thanks, you’re a peach. Beverly, we’ll catch up soon. Bernadette, it was a pleasure as always, Penny, you have spinach in your teeth.

Leonard: So, when the aliens brought you back, they just left the probe in?
Sheldon: I’m back.

Leonard: Hey, how’d it go?
Sheldon: It went well. Yeah, I’ve learned that if you never say you’re sorry, the times you do really puts them on their heels. Uh, Stuart, I relieve you of your line duties.

Woman: You made it.
Sheldon: Did you see that? He just cut the line.

Leonard: He’s just joining his friends; it’s fine.
Sheldon: No, it’s not fine. It is a breach of line etiquette.

Howard: We’re near the front of the line. We’ll get in either way.
Sheldon: What if every person in front of us let someone cut?

Leonard: We’d still get in.
Sheldon: What if each of those people let someone cut?

Leonard: Still get in.
Sheldon: But then each of those people let someone cut?

Leonard: We’d still get in, but first I’d hit you over the head with his stick chair.
Sheldon: Excuse me.

Leonard: Oh, please don’t.
Sheldon: Uh, uh, I couldn’t help but notice that you cut the line.

Man: Oh, uh, I’m with my friends. It’s cool.
Sheldon: Well, no. It’s not cool. If there were reserved seating, and we all had tickets, that would be fine. But this line is first-come, first-served. Not show up tardy and nevertheless be first served. Right here.

Leonard: No.
Sheldon: You need to go to the back of the line.

Man: Uh, who made you line monitor?
Sheldon: Mrs. Wunch in fourth grade. And my slogan was a line that’s straight is a line that’s great.

Scene: The cinema line.
Sheldon: What about Joss Whedon’s work makes you think he’d be okay with rule-breakers and line-cutters?

Man: The Avengers are rule-breakers. Being vengeful is in their job description.
Sheldon: They work for SHIELD, which is a sanctioned department of the U.S. Government. Do you work for a sanctioned department of the U.S. Government?

Raj: He’s got him there. The D even stands for department.
Sheldon: Excuse me, excuse me, can I please see a show of hands? Who here takes issue with this person cutting the line?

Man: Told you.
Sheldon: Well, what a sad state of affairs. That you’ve all been so ground down by life, you don’t even notice when someone disrespects you.

Howard: I can’t believe we’re gonna get beat up, and it’s not because of your chair.
Sheldon: You know, right now, at the back of this line, there’s a movie fan like you who’s not going to get in, because this person simply doesn’t care. Yeah, well, 61 years ago, there was another person at the back of the line and her name was Rosa Parks.

Leonard: Okay, you may have to pretend you’re black to get us out of here.
Sheldon: Now, let’s follow in that brave woman’s footsteps, and stand up for ourselves. And, and I realize that she stood up by remaining seated, but now is not the time to enjoy the irony of that. Now, I ask you again. Who here takes issue with this person…

Woman: Why should we listen to you? You cut the line yourself.
Sheldon: I most certainly did not.

Man: If you’re feeling dizzy, it’s because the tables have turned.
Sheldon: Excuse me, I paid someone to wait in line for me, and then when I arrived, he left, so what you saw, my good woman, was swapsies, not cutsies. Oh, no, no, no, no, wait, I ask you all again, a show of hands. Who here takes issue… well, stop moving. he’s gonna get in.

Leonard: Buddy, let it go.
Sheldon: No, I can’t. This isn’t right.

Leonard: You did everything you could.
Sheldon: No, I could’ve done more.

Amy: Wait, now I’m just some lousy maid of honour?
Sheldon: Hey, good news, I just got off the phone with my mother. She is coming to the wedding.

Penny: Okay, wait, you’re inviting people to our wedding?
Sheldon: Yes, I’m inviting people to our wedding. Yeah, I’ve already asked Stephen Hawking and Robert Downey Jr, and, now don’t get your hopes up, ’cause he’s pretty busy, but Erno Rubik.

Bernadette: Who’s Erno Rubik?
Sheldon: Seriously? He invented the Rubik’s Cube.

Penny: Okay, fine, but why would you invite him to our wedding?
Sheldon: Because, despite his fame and fortune, he strikes me as a lonely man.

Mary Cooper: Thank you for picking me up.
Sheldon: Oh, you’re welcome.

Amy: Okay, Mary.
Sheldon: You know, that doesn’t work for me, let’s stay with Mrs. Cooper.

Mary: Sheldon, don’t be silly.
Sheldon: Wu-wu, what? That’s what I called you till I got to know you better.

Mary: It was so nice of Leonard and Penny to invite me.
Sheldon: Well, actually, I…

Mary: I’ve always had a special place in my heart for Leonard. Taking care of my baby all these years.
Sheldon: Excuse me, I take care of him.

Amy: Oh, well, the usual gang. Penny’s family is coming tomorrow.
Sheldon: Yeah, and Leonard’s mother’s already here.

Mary: Yes, I have.
Sheldon: Mother, she’s an atheist, not a vampire.

Mary: Good.
Sheldon: I don’t know what we were worried about, they’re getting along great.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: Isn’t this nice?

Leonard: Dad, you remember Sheldon.
Sheldon: Dr. Hofstadter.

Beverly: Hello to you, you wrinkled old bastard.
Sheldon: All right, now I’m starting to sense a little tension.

Mary: You know, the Bible says forgiveness…
Sheldon: Mom.

Penny: Uh, who’s hungry? We have a reservation at the best restaurant in town.
Sheldon: It only got three-and-a-half stars on Yelp.

Amy: Sheldon.
Sheldon: I’m not sorry. That’s true.

Mary: My goodness, so all the way back to the Flood.
Sheldon: Don’t laugh, she wasn’t joking.

Amy: Do you realize what’s happening here?
Sheldon: Yeah, I do. They’re filling up on bread and ruining their meal.

Penny: Yeah, I’m gonna call Bernadette and see what’s keeping them.
Sheldon: If I’d known you were broke, I wouldn’t have made a big deal about the bread.

Mary: Well, that certainly explains my marriage to Sheldon’s father.
Sheldon: That’s funny, because my father was not a very clever man.

Leonard: Uh, I would like to propose a toast to my wife and bride-to-be.
Sheldon: See, that’s funny because…

Leonard: What is happening there?
Sheldon: I think it’s pretty obvious. They don’t want dessert ’cause they filled up on bread.

Scene: The apartment.
Sheldon: She’s still not answering.

Penny: ‘Cause they both turned their phones off.
Sheldon: I don’t like this at all.

